<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
<title>True Enough</title>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<div class="body">
<p class="sp">&#x00A0;</p>
<section epub:type="bibliography">
<hgroup>
<h1 class="BMH"><samp class="SANS-ITC-Stone-Sans-Std-Semibold-11"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_319" title="319"/>References</samp></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="REF">Abel, G. (2012). Knowing-how: Indispensable but inscrutable. In S. Tolksdorf (Ed.), <i>Conceptions of knowledge</i> (pp. 245&#x2013;267). Berlin: De Gruyter.</p>
<p class="REF">Adler, J. (1981). Skepticism and universalizability. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>78</i>, 143&#x2013;156.</p>
<p class="REF">Adler, J. (2002). <i>Belief&#x2019;s own ethics</i>. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Adler, J. (2009). Why fallibility has not mattered and how it could. In H. Siegel (Ed.), <i>Oxford handbook of the philosophy of education</i> (pp. 83&#x2013;103). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Alberti, L. B. (2011). <i>On painting</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Alston, William (1988). The deontological conception of epistemic justification. In J. Tomberlin (Ed.), <i>Philosophical Perspectives</i> (Vol. 2): <i>Epistemology</i> (pp. 257&#x2013;299). Atascadero, CA: Ridgeview.</p>
<p class="REF">Ankeny, R. (2014). The overlooked role of cases in causal attribution in medicine. <i>Philosophy of Science</i>, <i>81</i>, 999&#x2013;1011.</p>
<p class="REF">Aristotle. (1973). <i>Poetics</i>. In <i>Introduction to Aristotle.</i> Ed. Richard McKeon. Chicago: Chicago University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Aristotle. (1985). <i>Nicomachean ethics</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Austen, J. (1814). Letter to her niece, Anna Austin Lefroy, September 9, 1814. In <i>Letters of Jane Austen.</i> Bradbourne Edition, <a href="http://www.pemberley.com/janeinfo/brablt16.html">http://www.pemberley.com/janeinfo/brablt16.html</a>.</p>
<p class="REF">Ball, P. (2005). <i>Elegant solutions</i>. Cambridge: Royal Society of Chemistry.</p>
<p class="REF">Banes, S. (2003). Gulliver&#x2019;s hamburger: Defamiliarization and the ordinary in the 1960s avant garde. In S. Banes (Ed.), <i>Reinventing dance in the 1960s</i> (pp. 3&#x2013;5). Madison: University of Wisconsin Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Bannock, G., Baxter, R., &amp; Davis, E. (1998). <i>Dictionary of economics</i>. New York: John Wiley.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_320" title="320"/>Bealer, G. (1998). Propositions. <i>Mind</i>, <i>107</i>, 1&#x2013;32.</p>
<p class="REF">Bennett, J. (1974). The conscience of Huckleberry Finn. <i>Philosophy</i>, <i>69</i>, 123&#x2013;134.</p>
<p class="REF">Berkeley, G. (1957). <i>A treatise concerning the principles of human knowledge</i>. Indianapolis: Bobbs Merrill.</p>
<p class="REF">Berker, S. (2013). The rejection of epistemic consequentialism. <i>Philosophical Issues</i>, <i>23</i>, 363&#x2013;387.</p>
<p class="REF">Bokulich, A. (2001). Rethinking thought experiments. <i>Perspectives on Science</i>, <i>9</i>, 285&#x2013;307.</p>
<p class="REF">BonJour, L. (1985). <i>The structure of empirical knowledge</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Boswell, T. (2011). Penn State Coach Joe Paterno reaches a sad conclusion. <i>Washington Post</i>, Nov. 9.</p>
<p class="REF">Bourgeois, F. T., Murthy, S., &amp; Mandl, K. (2010). Outcome reporting among drug trials registered in <a href="http://ClinicalTrials.gov">ClinicalTrials.gov</a>. <i>Annals of Internal Medicine</i>, <i>153</i>(3) (Aug. 3): 158&#x2013;166.</p>
<p class="REF">Brewer, S. (1998). Scientific expert testimony and intellectual due process. <i>Yale Law Journal</i>, <i>107</i>, 1535&#x2013;1682.</p>
<p class="REF">Brogaard, B. (2005). I know, therefore I understand. Unpublished MS.</p>
<p class="REF">Burge, T. (1993). Content preservation. <i>Philosophical Review</i>, <i>102</i>, 457&#x2013;488.</p>
<p class="REF">Capdevila, R. (2009). <i>Construing architecture, constructing philosophy.</i> Dissertation presented to the Deparatment de Filosofia, Universitat Aut&#xF2;noma de Barcelona.</p>
<p class="REF">Carr, D. (1979). The logic of knowing how and ability. <i>Mind</i>, <i>88</i>, 394&#x2013;409.</p>
<p class="REF">Carroll, N. (2002). The wheel of virtue: Art, literature, and moral knowledge. <i>Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism</i>, <i>60</i>, 3&#x2013;26.</p>
<p class="REF">Cartwright, N. (1983). <i>How the laws of physics lie.</i> Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Cartwright, N. (1999). Aristotelian natures and modern experimental method. In <i>The dappled world</i> (pp. 77&#x2013;104). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Cavell, S. (1987). <i>Disowning knowledge in six plays of Shakespeare</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Chang, H. (2004). <i>Inventing temperature</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Chisholm, R. (1973). <i>The problem of the criterion</i>. Milwaukee, WI: Marquette University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Cohen, L. J. (1992). <i>An essay on belief and acceptance</i>. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_321" title="321"/>Cohen, S. (2014). Contextualism defended. In M. Steup, J. Turri, &amp; E. Sosa (Eds.), <i>Contemporary debates in epistemology</i> (pp. 69&#x2013;75). Malden, MA: Wiley Blackwell.</p>
<p class="REF">Comfort, N. C. (2001). <i>The tangled field: Barbara McClintock&#x2019;s search for the patterns of genetic control</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Cunningham, Merce. (1986). Interview. <i>Points in space</i> (CD).</p>
<p class="REF">Davenport, E. (1983). Literature as thought experiment (on aiding and abetting the muse). <i>Philosophy of the Social Sciences</i>, <i>13</i>, 279&#x2013;306.</p>
<p class="REF">David, M. (2005). Truth as the primary epistemic goal: A working hypothesis. In M. Steup &amp; E. Sosa (Eds.), <i>Contemporary debates in epistemology</i> (pp. 296&#x2013;312). Malden: Blackwell.</p>
<p class="REF">Davidson, D. (2001). Rational animals. In <i>Subjective, intersubjective, objective</i> (pp. 95&#x2013;106). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Davies, D. (2010). Learning through fictional narratives in art and science. In R. Frigg &amp; M. C. Hunter (Eds.), <i>Beyond mimesis and convention</i> (pp. 51&#x2013;70)<i>.</i> Dordrecht: Springer.</p>
<p class="REF">DeRose, K. (2011). <i>The case for contextualism</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Dewey, J. (1916). <i>Democracy and education</i>. New York: Free Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Dickie, G. (2007). What is art? An institutional analysis. In J. Adler &amp; C. Elgin (Eds.), <i>Philosophical inquiry</i> (pp. 852&#x2013;862). Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Dougherty, T., &amp; Rysiew, P. (2009). Fallibilism, epistemic possibility, and concessive knowledge attributions. <i>Philosophy and Phenomenological Research</i>, <i>78</i>, 123&#x2013;132.</p>
<p class="REF">Douglas, H. (2004). The irreducible complexity of objectivity. <i>Synthese</i>, <i>138</i>, 453&#x2013;473.</p>
<p class="REF">Doyle, Y., Egan, S., Graham, N., &amp; Khalifa, K. (2015). Non-factive understanding: A statement and a defense. Unpublished MS.</p>
<p class="REF">Dretske, F. (2000). Conclusive reasons. In <i>Perception, knowledge, and belief</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Elgin, C. Z. (1988). <i>With reference to reference</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Elgin, C. Z. (1996). <i>Considered judgment</i>. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Elgin, C. Z. (2002). Art in the advancement of understanding. <i>American Philosophical Quarterly</i>, <i>39</i>, 1&#x2013;12.</p>
<p class="REF">Elgin, C. Z. (2007a). The laboratory of the mind. In J. Gibson, W. Huemer, &amp; L. Pocci (Eds.), <i>A sense of the world: Essays on fiction, narrative, and knowledge</i> (pp. 43&#x2013;54). London: Routledge.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_322" title="322"/>Elgin, C. Z. (2007b). Emotion and understanding. In G. Brun, U. Dogouglu, &amp; D. Kunzle (Eds.), <i>Epistemology and emotions</i> (pp. 33&#x2013;50). London: Ashgate.</p>
<p class="REF">Elgin, C. Z. (2011). Making manifest: Exemplification in the sciences and the arts. <i>Principia</i>, <i>15</i>, 399&#x2013;413.</p>
<p class="REF">Federal Register. 2009. Aug. 20 (Vol. 74, No. 160), <a href="http://edocket.access.gpo.gov/2009/E9-19930.htm">http://edocket.access.gpo.gov/2009/E9-19930.htm</a>.</p>
<p class="REF">Feldman, R. (2008). Modest deontologism in epistemology. <i>Synthese</i>, <i>177</i>, 41&#x2013;66.</p>
<p class="REF">Feynman, R. (2001). <i>What do you care what other people think?</i> New York: W. W. Norton.</p>
<p class="REF">Fine, A. (1998). The viewpoint of no-one in particular. <i>Proceedings and Addresses of the American Philosophical Association</i>, <i>72</i>, 9&#x2013;20.</p>
<p class="REF">Firth, R. (1981). Epistemic merit: Intrinsic and instrumental. <i>Proceedings and Addresses of the American Philosophical Association</i>, <i>55</i>, 5&#x2013;23.</p>
<p class="REF">Folkman, J. (1996). Fighting cancer by attacking its blood supply. <i>Scientific American</i>, <i>275</i>(3), 50&#x2013;54.</p>
<p class="REF">Fricker, E. (1994). Against gullibility. In B. K. Matilal &amp; A. Chakrabarti (Eds.), <i>Knowing from words</i> (pp. 125&#x2013;161). Amsterdam: Kluwer.</p>
<p class="REF">Fricker, M. (2007). <i>Epistemic injustice: Power and the ethics of knowing</i>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Frigg, R. (2010). Fiction and scientific representation. In R. Frigg and M. C. Hunter (Eds.), <i>Beyond mimesis and convention</i> (pp. 97&#x2013;138). Dordrecht: Springer.</p>
<p class="REF">Fry, R. (1952). <i>C&#xE9;zanne</i>. London: Hogarth.</p>
<p class="REF">Fumerton, R. (2010). Foundationalist theories of epistemic justification. In E. Zalta (Ed.), <i>The Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy</i> (Summer 2010 Ed.), <a href="http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2010/entries/justep.foundational">http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2010/entries/justep.foundational</a>.</p>
<p class="REF">Gendler, T. (2010). Galileo and the indispensability of scientific thought experiment. In <i>Intuition, imagination, and scientific methodology</i> (pp. 21&#x2013;41). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Giere, R. (1999). <i>Science without laws</i>. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Ginsborg, H. (2010). Primitive normativity and skepticism about rules. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>108</i>, 227&#x2013;254.</p>
<p class="REF">Goldman, A. (1986). <i>Epistemology and cognition</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Goldman, A. (1999). <i>Knowledge in a social world</i>. Oxford: Clarendon.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_323" title="323"/>Goodman, N. (1968). <i>Languages of art</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Goodman, N. (1977). <i>The structure of appearance</i>. Dordrecht: Reidel.</p>
<p class="REF">Goodman, N. (1978). <i>Ways of worldmaking</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Goodman, N. (1984). <i>Fact, fiction, and forecast</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Goodstein, D. (2010). <i>On fact and fraud</i>. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Greco, J. (2014). Episteme: Knowledge and understanding. In K. Timpe &amp; C. Boyd (Eds.), <i>Virtues and their vices</i> (pp. 285&#x2013;302). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Green, M., &amp; Williams, J. N. (Eds.). (2007). <i>Moore&#x2019;s paradox</i>. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Greenberg, C. (1961). <i>Art and culture</i>. Boston: Beacon.</p>
<p class="REF">Greenberg, C. (1966). Modernist painting. In G. Battcock (Ed.), <i>The new art</i> (pp. 100&#x2013;110). New York: Dutton.</p>
<p class="REF">Grice, P. (1989). Logic and conversation. In <i>Studies in the way of words</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Grimm, S. (2006). Is understanding a species of knowledge? <i>British Journal for the Philosophy of Science</i>, <i>57</i>, 515&#x2013;535.</p>
<p class="REF">Grimm, S. (2008). Explanatory inquiry and the need for explanation. <i>British Journal for the Philosophy of Science</i>, <i>59</i>, 481&#x2013;497.</p>
<p class="REF">Grimm, S. (2014). Understanding as knowledge of causes. In Abrol Fairweather (Ed.), <i>Virtue epistemology naturalized: Bridges between virtue epistemology and philosophy of science</i>. New York: Springer.</p>
<p class="REF">Habermas, J. (2001). Truth and society: The discursive redemption of factual claims to validity. In <i>On the pragmatics of social interaction</i> (pp. 85&#x2013;104). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Hacking, I. (1982). Experimentation and scientific realism. <i>Philosophical Topics</i>, <i>13</i>, 71&#x2013;88.</p>
<p class="REF">Hacking, I. (1983). <i>Representing and intervening</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Hardwig, J. (1991). The role of trust in knowledge. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>88</i>, 693&#x2013;708.</p>
<p class="REF">Hempel, C. G. (1965). Studies in the logic of explanation. In <i>Aspects of scientific explanation</i> (pp. 245&#x2013;295). New York: Free Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Herodotus. (1985). <i>The histories</i>. New York: Penguin.</p>
<p class="REF">Hetherington, S. (2011). <i>How to know</i>. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_324" title="324"/>Hills, A. (2015). Understanding why. <i>No&#xFB;s</i>, <i>50</i>, 661&#x2013;688.</p>
<p class="REF">Hughes, R. I. G. (1996). Models and representation. In <i>PSA 1996</i> (Vol. 2, pp. S325&#x2013;336). Philosophy of Science Association.</p>
<p class="REF">Hume, D. (1928). <i>A treatise of human nature</i>. L. A. Selby-Bigge (Ed.). Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Hume, D. (1977). <i>An enquiry concerning human understanding</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Hume, D. (2007). On the standard of taste. In J. Adler &amp; C. Elgin (Eds.), <i>Philosophical inquiry</i> (pp. 815&#x2013;824). Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">James, W. (1951). The will to believe. In A. Castelli (Ed.), <i>Essays on pragmatism</i> (pp. 88&#x2013;109). New York: Harner.</p>
<p class="REF">James, W. (1983). <i>Principles of psychology</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Jullien, C. (2006). <i>Esthetique et modes Operatoires en Math&#xE9;matiques</i>. PhD dissertation, Nancy-Universit&#xE9;.</p>
<p class="REF">Kant, I. (1981). <i>Grounding for the metaphysics of morals</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Kant, I. (1987). <i>Critique of judgment</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Keller, E. F. (1983). <i>A feeling for the organism</i>. New York: Henry Holt.</p>
<p class="REF">Khalifa, K. (2012). Inaugurating understanding or repackaging explanation? <i>Philosophy of Science</i>, <i>79</i>, 15&#x2013;37.</p>
<p class="REF">Kipling, R. (1978). The elephant&#x2019;s child. In <i>Just so stories</i> (pp. 49&#x2013;63). New York: Weathervane Books.</p>
<p class="REF">Kitcher, P. (1990). The division of cognitive labor. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>87</i>, 5&#x2013;22.</p>
<p class="REF">Klein, P. (1999). Human knowledge and the infinite regress of reasons. <i>Philosophical Perspectives</i>, <i>13</i>, 297&#x2013;325.</p>
<p class="REF">Korsgaard, C. (1996a). <i>The sources of normativity.</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Korsgaard, C. (1996b). The reasons we can share. In <i>Creating the kingdom of ends</i> (pp. 249&#x2013;274)<i>.</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Kripke, S. (1982). <i>Wittgenstein on rules and private language</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Kripke, S. (2011a). On two paradoxes of knowledge. In <i>Philosophical troubles</i> (pp. 27&#x2013;49). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Kripke, S. (2011b). A puzzle about belief. In <i>Philosophical troubles</i> (pp. 125&#x2013;161). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_325" title="325"/>Kuhn, T. (1970). <i>The structure of scientific revolutions</i>. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Kvanvig, J. (2003). <i>The value of knowledge and the pursuit of understanding</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Kyburg, H. (1997). The rule of adjunction and reasonable inference. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>94</i>, 109&#x2013;125.</p>
<p class="REF">Lehrer, K. (1974). <i>Knowledge</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Lehrer, K. (1986). The coherence theory of knowledge. <i>Philosophical Topics</i>, <i>14</i>, 5&#x2013;25.</p>
<p class="REF">Leite, A. (2004). Is fallibility an epistemological shortcoming? <i>Philosophical Quarterly</i>, <i>54</i>, 232&#x2013;251.</p>
<p class="REF">Lewis, C. I. (1946). <i>An analysis of knowledge and valuation</i>. La Salle, IL: Open Court.</p>
<p class="REF">Lewis, D. (1983). Truth in fiction: Postscript. In <i>Philosophical papers</i> (Vol. <i>1</i>, pp. 276&#x2013;280). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Lewis, D. (1999a). New work for a theory of universals. In <i>Papers in metaphysics and epistemology</i> (pp. 8&#x2013;55). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Lewis, D. (1999b). Elusive knowledge. In <i>Papers in metaphysics and epistemology</i> (pp. 418&#x2013;445). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Lin, M. (2000). Making the memorial. <i>New York Review of Books</i>, Nov. 2.</p>
<p class="REF">Lipton, P. (2004). <i>Inference to the best explanation</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
<p class="REF">Lipton, P. (2009). Understanding without explanation. In H. de Regt, S. Leonelli, &amp; K. Eiger (Eds.), <i>Scientific understanding: Philosophical perspectives</i> (pp. 43&#x2013;63). Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Lo, Bernard, &amp; Fields, Marilyn J. (Eds.). (2009). Principles for identifying and assessing conflicts of interest. In <i>Conflict of interest in medical research, education, and practice</i> (pp. 44&#x2013;61)<i>.</i> Washington, DC: National Academies Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Locke, J. (1894). <i>An essay concerning human understanding</i>. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Longino, H. (1990). <i>Science as social knowledge: Values and objectivity in scientific inquiry.</i> Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Lopes, D. (1996). <i>Understanding pictures</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Mazur, J. (2014). <i>Enlightening symbols: A short history of mathematical notation and its hidden powers</i>. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">McClintock, B. (1973). Letter to J. R. S. Finchman, May16, 1973. <a href="http://profiles.nlm.nih.gov/LL/Views/Exhibit/documents/biographical.html">http://profiles.nlm.nih.gov/LL/Views/Exhibit/documents/biographical.html</a>.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_326" title="326"/>McGowan, M. K. (2003). Realism, reference, and grue. <i>American Philosophical Quarterly</i>, <i>40</i>, 47&#x2013;57.</p>
<p class="REF">McGowan, M. K. (2009). On silencing and sexual refusal. <i>Journal of Political Philosophy</i>, <i>17</i>, 487&#x2013;494.</p>
<p class="REF">Metropolis, N. (1987). The beginning of the Monte Carlo Method. <i>Los Alamos Science</i>, <i>15</i> (Special Issue dedicated to Stanislaw Ulam), 125&#x2013;130.</p>
<p class="REF">Mill, J. S. (1978). <i>On liberty</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Moore, G. E. (1991). Russell&#x2019;s theory of descriptions. In P. A. Schilpp (Ed.), <i>The philosophy of Bertrand Russell</i> (pp. 177&#x2013;225). La Salle, IL: Open Court.</p>
<p class="REF">Moore, G. E. (1993). A defence of common sense. In <i>G. E. Moore: Selected Writings</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
<p class="REF">Morrison, M., &amp; Morgan, M. S. (1999). Models as mediating instruments. In M. S. Morgan &amp; M. Morrison (Eds.), <i>Models as mediators</i> (pp. 10&#x2013;38)<i>.</i> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Morrison, M. (1999). Models as autonomous agents. M. S. Morgan &amp; M. Morrison (Eds.), <i>Models as mediators</i> (pp. 38&#x2013;65). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Nagel, T. (1986). <i>The view from nowhere</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Nersessian, Nancy (1993). In the theoretician&#x2019;s laboratory: Thought experimenting as mental modeling. In <i>PSA 1992</i> (Vol. 2, pp. 291&#x2013;301). Philosophy of Science Association.</p>
<p class="REF">Nersessian, N. (2007). Thought experimenting as mental modeling: Empiricism without logic. <i>Croatian Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>7</i>(20), 125&#x2013;161.</p>
<p class="REF">Nersessian, N. J. (2008). <i>Creating scientific concepts</i>. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Nozick, R. (1981). <i>Philosophical explanations</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF"><i>Oxford dictionary of science</i>. (1999). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Pascal, B. (2007). The wager. In J. E. Adler &amp; C. Z. Elgin (Eds.), <i>Philosophical inquiry</i> (pp. 784&#x2013;786). Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Plato. (1997). <i>Plato: The complete works</i>. J. Cooper (Ed.). Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
<p class="REF">Popper, K. (2002). <i>The logic of scientific discovery</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
<p class="REF">Porter, T. (1995). <i>Trust in numbers: The pursuit of objectivity in science and public life</i>. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Pritchard, D. (2005). <i>Epistemic luck</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_327" title="327"/>Pritchard, D. (2010). Knowledge and understanding. In D. Pritchard, A. Millar, &amp; A. Haddock, <i>The nature and value of knowledge: Three investigations</i> (pp. 1&#x2013;88). Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Quine, W. V. (1961). Two dogmas of empiricism. In <i>From a logical point of view</i> (pp. 20&#x2013;46). New York: Harper &amp; Row.</p>
<p class="REF">Rainer, Y. (1995). Some retrospective notes on a dance for 10 people and 12 mattresses called parts of some sextets. In M. R. Sandford (Ed.), <i>Happenings and other acts</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
<p class="REF">Rawls, J. (1971). <i>A theory of justice</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Riggs, W. (2003). Balancing our epistemic goals. <i>No&#xFB;s</i>, <i>37</i>, 343&#x2013;352.</p>
<p class="REF">Rowling, J. K. (1999). <i>Harry Potter and the prisoner of Azkaban</i>. New York: Scholastic.</p>
<p class="REF">Russell, B. (1968). On denoting. In <i>Logic and knowledge</i>. New York: Capricorn.</p>
<p class="REF">Russell, W. (1783). <i>The tragic muse: A poem addressed to Mrs. Siddons</i>. London: Printed for G. Kearsley.</p>
<p class="REF">Ryle, G. (1949/2009). <i>The concept of mind.</i> New York: Routledge.</p>
<p class="REF">Sarkar, S. (2014). Ecology. In E. Zalta (Ed.), <i>Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy</i> (Spring 2014 Ed.), <a href="http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2014/entries/ecology/">http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2014/entries/ecology/</a>.</p>
<p class="REF">Scanlon, T. M. (1998). <i>What we owe to each other</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Schwartz, R. (1985). The power of pictures. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>82</i>, 189&#x2013;198.</p>
<p class="REF">Sellars, W. (1963). <i>Science, perception, and reality</i>. London: Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul.</p>
<p class="REF">Sellars, W. (1968). <i>Science and metaphysics</i>. London: Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul.</p>
<p class="REF">Shah, N. (2002). Clearing space for doxastic voluntarism. <i>Monist</i>, <i>85</i>, 436&#x2013;445.</p>
<p class="REF">Sigman, J. (1998). Ordinary people: <i>Trio A</i> and how dances signify. In <i>Bodies, souls, and ordinary people: Three essays on art and interpretation.</i> Dissertation presented to the Department of Philosophy, Princeton University.</p>
<p class="REF">Sklar, L. (1999) Philosophy of science. In R. Audi (Ed.), <i>Cambridge dictionary of philosophy</i> (pp. 700&#x2013;704). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Snyder, M. (2012). Teaching Jo Pa. <i>Academe</i>, <i>98</i>, 55.</p>
<p class="REF">Sosa, E. (2007). <i>A virtue epistemology.</i> Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Stadler, I. (1982). The idea of art and of its criticism. In T. Cohen and P. Guyer (Eds.), <i>Essays in Kant&#x2019;s aesthetics</i> (pp. 195&#x2013;220)<i>.</i> Chicago: University of Chicago Press.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_328" title="328"/>Strevens, M. (2008). <i>Depth: An account of scientific explanation</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Strevens, M. (2010). Varieties of understanding. Unpublished manuscript.</p>
<p class="REF">Strevens, M. (2012). Ceteris paribus hedges: Causal voodoo that works. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>109</i>, 652&#x2013;675.</p>
<p class="REF">Strevens, M. (2016). How idealizations provide understanding. In S. Grimm, C. Baumberger, &amp; S. Ammon (Eds.), <i>Explaining understanding: New essays in epistemology and the philosophy of science</i> (pp. 37&#x2013;49). New York: Routledge.</p>
<p class="REF">Stroud, B. (1984). <i>The significance of philosophical scepticism</i>. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Su&#xE1;rez, M. (2003). Scientific representation: Against similarity and isomorphism. <i>International Studies in the Philosophy of Science</i>, <i>17</i>, 225&#x2013;243.</p>
<p class="REF">Suzuki, H., et al. (2007). Novel strategy to treat multi-drug-resistant gram-negative pathogens using bacterial conjugation. <i>Plasmid</i>, <i>57</i>, 237&#x2013;238.</p>
<p class="REF">Szab&#xF3;, Z. G. (2001). Fictionalism and Moore&#x2019;s paradox. <i>Canadian Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>31</i>, 299&#x2013;300.</p>
<p class="REF">Teller, P. (2001). The twilight of the perfect model model. <i>Erkenntnis</i>, <i>55</i>, 393&#x2013;415.</p>
<p class="REF">Treanor, N. (2013). The measure of knowledge. <i>No&#xFB;s</i>, <i>47</i>, 577&#x2013;601.</p>
<p class="REF">Tufte, E. R. (1997). <i>Visual and statistical thinking: Displays of evidence for decision making</i>. Cheshire, CT: Graphics Press.</p>
<p class="REF">USA Diving. (2013). <i>Official technical rules 2015&#x2013;2017.</i> <a href="http://usadiving.org">http://usadiving.org</a>.</p>
<p class="REF">Van Cleve, J. (2005). Why coherence is not enough: A defense of moderate foundationalism. In M. Steup &amp; E. Sosa (Eds.), <i>Contemporary debates in epistemology</i> (pp. 168&#x2013;180). Malden: Blackwell.</p>
<p class="REF">Van Fraassen, B. (2008). <i>Scientific representation</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Venter, J. C., et al. (2001). The sequence of the human genome. <i>Science</i>, <i>291</i>(5007), 1304&#x2013;1351.</p>
<p class="REF">Vogel, J. (1990). Are there counterexamples to the closure principle? In M. D. Roth &amp; G. Ross (Eds.), <i>Doubting</i> (pp. 13&#x2013;27). Dordrecht: Kluwer.</p>
<p class="REF">Walden, K. (2007). A practico priori. Unpublished MS.</p>
<p class="REF">Weatherson, B. (2008). Deontology and Descartes&#x2019; demon. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i>, <i>105</i>, 540&#x2013;569.</p>
<p class="REF">Wedgwood, R. (2002). The aim of belief. <i>No&#xFB;s</i>, <i>16</i> (supplement), 267&#x2013;297.</p>
<p class="REF">Weisberg, M. (2013). <i>Simulation and similarity</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_329" title="329"/>West, R. (1928). <i>The strange necessity</i>. Garden City: Doubleday.</p>
<p class="REF">White, M. (1965). <i>Foundations of historical knowledge</i>. New York: Harper &amp; Row.</p>
<p class="REF">Williams, B. A. O. (1973). Deciding to believe. In <i>Problems of the self</i> (pp. 136&#x2013;151). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Williams, B. A. O. (1978). <i>Descartes: The project of inquiry</i>. New York: Penguin.</p>
<p class="REF">Williams, B. A. O. (1985). <i>Ethics and the limits of philosophy</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Williams, B. A. O. (2002). <i>Truth and truthfulness</i>. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Williamson, T. (2000). <i>Knowledge and its limits</i>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Wills, G. (1992). <i>Lincoln at Gettysburg: Words that remade America</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.</p>
<p class="REF">Wilson, M. (2006). <i>Wandering significance</i>. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Wittgenstein, L. (1953). <i>Philosophical investigations</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="REF">Wittgenstein, L. (1961). <i>Tractatus logico-philosophicus</i>. London: Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul.</p>
<p class="REF">Zimba, J. (2009). On the possibility of trigonometric proofs of the Pythagorean theorem. <i>Forum Geometricorum</i>, <i>9</i>, 275&#x2013;278.</p>
<p class="REF">Zinn, H. (1980). <i>A people&#x2019;s history of the United States</i>. New York: Harper &amp; Row.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>