<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_000e" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="ack"/></div>
			<p class="CT">Acknowledgments</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The argument of this book follows a winding path through various topics and disciplines. Lots of people helped me to navigate it and to arrive at what I hope is a cohesive, persuasive philosophical position. For helpful conversation and correspondence, I am grateful to Anna Bortolan, Matthew Broome, Havi Carel, Jonathan Cole, Charles Fernyhough, Thomas Fuchs, Shaun Gallagher, Philip Gerrans, Emily Hughes, Daniel Hutto, Laurence Kirmayer, Joel Krueger, Martin Kusch, Sophie Loidolt, Graham Parkes, Mark Ruddell, Louis Sass, Tasia Scrutton, Jan Slaby, Benedict Smith, Achim Stephan, Mark Wynn, Dan Zahavi, and many others. Thanks, in particular, to Owen Earnshaw, Jennifer Radden, and Sam Wilkinson. It was through supervising Owen&#8217;s highly original PhD thesis at Durham University that I began to appreciate the relevance of trust and its fragility to an understanding of psychiatric illness (Earnshaw 2011; available at <a href="http://etheses.dur.ac.uk/3225/">http://etheses.dur.ac.uk/3225/</a>). Sam and I have had many long conversations about the topics of this book, which led to two coauthored papers. And it was a privilege to be able to share ideas with Jennifer while she was a Visiting Professor at the University of Vienna in 2016. It is also thanks to her earlier advice and encouragement that I sought to publish this book as part of the MIT Press Philosophical Psychopathology series. I am grateful to members of my &#8220;phenomenological psychopathology and philosophy of psychiatry&#8221; research group at the University of Vienna for all their feedback and support, especially Maike Cram, Marie Dahle, Christoph Durt, Line Ingerslev, Oliver Lukitsch, and Philipp Schmidt. Thanks, as well, to all those students who participated so actively in my Phenomenology and Psychiatry courses at Vienna and offered numerous insightful comments.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Material from the book was presented at events hosted by the Free University of Berlin, King&#8217;s College London, and the Universities of Aalborg, Amsterdam, Durham, Edinburgh, Essex, Graz, Guelph, Groningen, Leeds, Memphis, McGill, Ryerson, Vienna, Warwick, and Wesleyan. I thank all these audiences for comments, suggestions, and criticisms. At MIT Press, Philip Laughlin has been an absolute pleasure to work with. I am also grateful to four referees who read my book proposal and two referees who read the entire manuscript, all of whom provided very helpful and encouraging comments.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This book incorporates, in substantially revised form, material from some previously published articles and chapters:</p>
			<p class="Lf">&#8220;The Integrity of Intentionality: Sketch for a Phenomenological Study.&#8221; In <i>Phenomenology for the Twenty-First Century</i>, ed. J. A. Simmons and J. E. Hackett, 207&#8211;230. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2016.</p>
			<p class="Lm">&#8220;Selfhood, Schizophrenia, and the Interpersonal Regulation of Experience.&#8221; In <i>Embodiment, Enaction, and Culture: Investigating the Constitution of the Shared World</i>, ed. C. Durt, T. Fuchs, and C. Tewes, 149&#8211;171. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2017.</p>
			<p class="Lm">&#8220;How Anxiety Induces Verbal Hallucinations&#8221; (coauthored with Sam Wilkinson). <i>Consciousness and Cognition</i> 39 (2016): 48&#8211;58.*</p>
			<p class="Lm">&#8220;Thought Insertion Clarified&#8221; (Coauthored with Sam Wilkinson). <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 22, nos. 11&#8211;12 (2015): 246&#8211;269.*</p>
			<p class="Lm">&#8220;Relating to the Dead: Social Cognition and the Phenomenology of Grief.&#8221; In <i>The Phenomenology of Sociality: Discovering the </i>&#8220;<span class="I">We</span>,&#8221; ed. D. Moran and T. Szanto, 202&#8211;215. London: Routledge, 2016.*</p>
			<p class="Ll">&#8220;What Is a Sense of Foreshortened Future? A Phenomenological Study of Trauma, Trust, and Time&#8221; (coauthored with Mark Ruddell and Benedict Smith). <i>Frontiers in Psychology</i> 5, (art. 1026 (2014): 1&#8211;11.*</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In those cases where permission to reuse material was required, I am grateful to the publishers for granting it. Where material is adapted from coauthored publications, it is taken exclusively from my contributions to those pieces, and with the consent of my coauthors. Four of the above papers (marked with an asterisk) were written as part of the Wellcome Trust&#8211;funded project, &#8220;Hearing the Voice&#8221; (grant no. WT098455), and I am grateful to the trust for its support. At several points in my discussion, I draw on a questionnaire study, which I conducted in collaboration with some project-colleagues: Angela Woods, Ben Alderson-Day, Felicity Callard, Charles Fernyhough, and Nev Jones. This study was closely modeled on earlier work that I had done with another group, for the AHRC- and DFG-funded project &#8220;Emotional Experience in Depression&#8221; (see Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 1, for details). I thank Benedict Smith, who played a major role in designing the original study, for allowing us to adapt and use material.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I am very grateful to those who completed the voices questionnaire, many of whom described their experiences in considerable detail. I would also like to thank all those people who have approached me informally, in writing or in person, in order to describe and discuss their experiences of psychiatric illness. Without exception, their testimonies have been informative and, indeed, inspiring.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
