<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_007" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="chap7"/></div>
			<p class="CT">7 Varieties of Hallucination</p>
			<p class="TxNI">As we have seen, many of those hallucinations that occur in psychiatric illness resemble neither &#8220;philosophers&#8217; hallucinations&#8221; nor &#8220;orthodox clinical hallucinations.&#8221; To understand these experiences, a more complicated, nuanced conception of intentionality is required. However, I have also acknowledged that other kinds of hallucination may turn out to be quite different. While I cannot do justice to the full range of phenomena that might be labeled as &#8220;hallucinations&#8221; and make no claim to do so, this chapter addresses at least some of those that have not yet been considered. I begin by identifying a type of hallucination that involves having a sense of perceiving in the absence of perceptual content, but differs from the kinds of modal confusion so far described. While the content of an internal VH (verbal hallucination) might be attributable to imagination, memory, or inner speech, this type of hallucination involves a sense of perceiving that attaches neither to the usual perceptual content nor to a nonperceptual content. So, instead of an experience that is ambiguous and conflicted, there is a less determinate experience, which <i>lacks</i> something of the perceptual. Following this, I consider benevolent &#8220;voices&#8221; and ask whether and how they might be accommodated by the account developed in chapter 4, which emphasized unpleasant experiences. Finally, the chapter turns to bereavement hallucinations, and shows how the phenomenology of grief further illustrates the multifaceted and sometimes conflictual nature of experiencing something as <i>present</i>. The example of grief suggests that, in all cases, it is simplistic to conceive of hallucination simply in terms of experiencing something as there when it is not. There is no simple, singular sense of presence. Rather, there are various subtly different ways in which we experience things as present or otherwise.</p>
			<div><a id="part1"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">7.1 </span>Orthodox Hallucinations</p>
			<p class="TxNI">An orthodox hallucination involves a kind of mistake that is largely attributable to similarity of experiential content. In short, a hallucinated entity <i>looks like</i> (or sounds, tastes, smells, or feels like) something that is present, to such an extent that the two may be confused. Hallucinations of this kind may well occur. For example, Oliver Sacks (2012) discusses a range of experiences, all of which resemble veridical perceptual experiences in one or another modality. These hallucinations, he says, &#8220;seem very real&#8221; and can &#8220;mimic perception in every respect,&#8221; including &#8220;the way they are projected into the external world&#8221; (2012, ix). The cases he discusses mostly involve &#8220;organic psychoses,&#8221; and he acknowledges that hallucinations in schizophrenia need to be understood differently. Even so, it is not so clear that the various kinds of experience considered by Sacks do resemble veridical perceptions, at least to the extent that he sometimes indicates. For example, in one case the hallucinations were like a &#8220;movie&#8221;; they &#8220;sometimes fascinated&#8221; and &#8220;sometimes bored&#8221; the person, but &#8220;seemed to have nothing to do with her.&#8221; They were also &#8220;silent&#8221; and exclusively visual. So the relevant experiences clearly lacked something of the <i>sense of reality</i> and, more specifically, the <i>sense of perceiving</i>. When this person&#8217;s hallucinations later seemed &#8220;absolutely real&#8221; to her, this was associated with their becoming &#8220;frightening,&#8221; something that is consistent with my suggestion that affective anticipation contributes to a sense of perceptual presence (Sacks 2012, 4&#8211;8).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Sacks also offers a first-person account of an elaborate drug-induced hallucination, which he took to be real at the time. Although the content of the experience initially consisted of mundane social interaction, he adds that a spider later said &#8220;hello,&#8221; and that it &#8220;did not seem at all strange&#8221; to him that &#8220;a spider should say hello.&#8221; A conversation with the spider then ensued (2012, 107&#8211;109). Although such an experience might <i>feel real</i> in some respects, again it surely lacks something of the sense of perceiving. If one&#8217;s experiences were anchored in consensus reality, conversational interaction with a spider could not seem other than strange. So the anticipation-fulfillment structure of this hallucination differs somehow from that of perception; it does not involve the same sense of potential and actual anomaly. Although it should be granted that such an experience includes something of the sense of perceiving, it is an incomplete sense. And perhaps the content differs too; contents that are more typical of imaginings might be associated with a (partial) sense of perceiving. We should thus be wary of alleged instances of clear-cut, orthodox hallucination.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Earlier, I did concede that some external VHs more closely approximate orthodox hallucinations than the internal VHs that were my primary focus. Nevertheless, they remain at least partly attributable to disturbances in the modal structure of intentionality, which dispose a person to experience sensory stimuli in terms of voices with consistent thematic contents. Hence even an external VH is not experienced in an unequivocally <i>perceptual</i> way, as a wider-ranging sense of perceiving as distinct from other kinds of intentionality has been altered. However, what should we say of a case where the content is like that of a veridical perceptual experience and there is <i>no</i> modal disruption? Again, the distinction between experiential content and sense is an important one. An experiential content could resemble that of a perception in one or another modality, without being associated with anything of the sense of perceiving. While it might be <i>as if</i> one is seeing something, the question of whether one really does see it never arises. Even if the experience comes about in a way that is wholly involuntary, one might retain an unambiguous sense of it as an instance of unusually vivid imagining, an experience <i>of an image</i>, or an experience that is otherwise removed from perception of one&#8217;s surroundings. Its nonveridical nature does not have to be inferred and can instead be integral to the experience from the outset, regardless of level of detail or vividness. So we should not confuse something <i>seeming real</i>, meaning that it resembles&#8212;in some way and to some extent&#8212;the content of a veridical perception, with its having a <i>sense of reality</i>. Three kinds of experience can thus be distinguished:</p>
			<p class="Lf">1.&#9;A sense of perceiving in the absence of characteristic content</p>
			<p class="Lm">2.&#9;Characteristic content in the absence of a sense of perceiving</p>
			<p class="Ll">3.&#9;Characteristic content, as well as a sense of perceiving</p>
			<p class="Tx">These are idealizations, and actual cases will approximate one or the other to varying degrees. A hallucination could involve a largely intact sense of perceiving without characteristic content or, alternatively, a content somehow like that of a veridical perception but with little of the sense of perceiving. An experience that is close to (1) is very different in nature from one that is close to (2). Therefore, labeling them both as &#8220;hallucinations&#8221; and treating them as similar in kind is uninformative and potentially very confusing. With regard to (3), I do not rule out the <i>possibility</i> that perfect hallucinations occur, or at least experiences that come close to them. Nothing I have said renders them metaphysically impossible or phenomenologically unintelligible. But whether or not they <i>actually</i> occur is another matter. Upon more careful phenomenological scrutiny, it might well turn out that no hallucinations include both an intact sense of perceiving and a content just like that of a veridical perceptual experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In fact, some of those experiences that might seem, at first glance, to conform to (3) are actually instances of (1). In earlier chapters, I discussed cases where the characteristic content of a nonperceptual modality is combined with aspects of the sense of perceiving. However, (1) also accommodates another kind of experience. There is a difference between the following:</p>
			<p class="Lf">a.&#9;A partial sense of perceiving, associated with an experiential content that is more typical of another kind of intentional state</p>
			<p class="Ll">b.&#9;A partial sense of perceiving, but without the more usual content of perceptual experience <i>and</i> without experiential content originating in one or another nonperceptual modality</p>
			<p class="Tx">So far, I have only addressed (a). However, the kinds of wide-ranging phenomenological change described in chapters 5 and 6 could equally dispose a person toward (b), and the acknowledgment of (b) thus widens the scope of my analysis. Some &#8220;hallucinations,&#8221; I will now suggest, are unlike perceptual experiences, but not in virtue of their resembling other kinds of experience. There is a partial sense of perceiving something variably specific, which arises in the absence of a complementary sensory experience. The result is a seemingly paradoxical experience of something as <i>there</i> and yet quite clearly <i>not there</i>.</p>
			<div><a id="part2"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">7.2 </span>Horizonal Hallucinations</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The anticipatory structure of experience makes a substantial but not exhaustive contribution to the sense of which intentional state one is in. As already discussed, where the type of anticipatory profile associated with state <i>x</i> is associated with aspects of experience more usually associated with state <i>y</i>, there is an ambiguous and conflicted experience. But consider another scenario, where the anticipatory profile associated with perceiving a type of entity or token entity is to varying degrees present, but without other constituents of perceptual experience. When I look at a coffee cup, it appears as something I can reach out and touch, and as something I can turn around to reveal a currently obscured side. Importantly, it also appears significant to me in a distinctive way; it is experienced as something for drinking from and, on occasion, it draws me in and solicits me to act. As Husserl would say, perception has a <i>horizonal</i> structure, which constitutes both the sense of encountering something perceptually and the sense of encountering one type of entity rather than another. Now, suppose that some aspects of the horizonal structure associated with a particular entity or type of entity were in place, while other aspects of perceptual experience were absent. There would be an ambiguous and partial sense of encountering something, but without the kind of conflict that features in VH/TI, where the content of experience is not merely lacking in some way but also incongruous.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Experiences like this would be just as consistent with the kinds of wide-ranging phenomenological change described in chapters 5 and 6. Suppose the coherence of perceptual experience is disrupted, such that there is widespread salience dysregulation. In conjunction with this, the person is passive and disengaged from the interpersonal world. She thus experiences things as significant in ways that are anomalous, unstructured, and detached from practical concerns. Drawing on Jaspers (1963) and/or recent work on predictive coding, all we need add is a conscious or nonconscious disposition to make sense of anomalous possibilities in a coherent way, in terms of loci around which they cluster. With practical and social disengagement, and a consequent lessening of accountability to the surrounding environment, this would happen in an idiosyncratic fashion. If you like, a kind of perceptual imagination would go to work, but without the constraints more usually supplied by the interplay between sensory input and global anticipatory style. The person would continue to have veridical perceptual experiences as well, albeit with an altered sense of presence. Her anomalous, quasi-perceptual experiences of possibility would run alongside them and be experienced as distinct from them. This scenario differs from one where the sense of perceiving is associated with a content more typical of nonsensory imagining, given that the associative processes in question are also more usually at work in perception and contribute to the sense of perceiving.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What I have just suggested is consistent with Merleau-Ponty&#8217;s brief discussion of hallucination in <i>Phenomenology of Perception</i> (1945/2012, Part II, chap. 3).<sup><span id="n7-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-1">1</a></span></sup> The intended scope of his remarks is unclear; he refers to &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; but does not say whether or not his discussion applies to hallucinations more generally. All I want to insist on is that <i>some</i> hallucinations in some contexts, including that of psychiatric illness, plausibly conform to his account. Rather than assuming that hallucinations somehow resemble veridical perceptual experiences, Merleau-Ponty begins by contrasting the two. Patients recognize the difference between their hallucinations and reality. For instance, they might say that &#8220;someone speaks to them by telephone or from the radio&#8221; in order to convey how the &#8220;morbid world&#8221; is &#8220;artificial,&#8221; somehow lacking in a way that sets it apart from a &#8220;reality&#8221; (350). He adds that the objects of hallucination do not impact on other features of the perceived world and are not experienced as available to other people either: &#8220;the hallucinatory phenomenon is not part of the world, that is, it is not <i>accessible</i>, there is no definite road that leads from this phenomenon to all the other experiences of the hallucinating subject, or to the experience of healthy subjects&#8221; (354&#8211;355). The world of hallucination and what remains of consensus reality unfold in parallel, involving different kinds of intentionality: &#8220;Hallucinations play out on a different stage than that of the perceived world; it is as if they are superimposed&#8221; (355).</p>
			<p class="Tx">One of the things that distinguishes hallucinations from veridical perceptual experiences is that they lack the full horizonal structure of perception. An entity, as hallucinated, does not present itself as amenable to various kinds of perceptual, practical, and interpersonal access. For instance, certain <i>intersensory</i> possibilities are absent. While a perceived cup of coffee offers the possibilities of touching and tasting, a hallucinated cup of coffee may be experienced in a way that is &#8220;mono-modal&#8221; (Kraus 2007). Objects of perception are ordinarily experienced as incomplete, not exhausted by our current experience of them, and as part of a wider world. Hallucinations, in contrast, are not fully integrated into the anticipation-fulfillment dynamic of perception: &#8220;The hallucination is not, like perception, my concrete hold upon time within a living present. Rather, the hallucination slides across time, just as it slides across the world&#8221; (Merleau-Ponty, 1945/2012, 355). On the other hand, Merleau-Ponty also indicates that a hallucination consists <i>solely</i> of horizonal structure. Despite its being impoverished, this structure continues to resemble, in some way, that of a perceptual experience. Like Husserl, he claims that an experience of worldly possibilities is also an experience of bodily dispositions. It is through the feeling body that we encounter possibilities in the world: &#8220;It is one and the same thing to perceive our body and to perceive our situation in a certain physical and human milieu, and because our body is nothing other than this situation itself insofar as it is realized and actual&#8221; (355). When hallucinating, the bodily counterparts of worldly possibilities are exercised without any complementary sensory input from the world, and also in relative isolation from the global anticipatory style into which perceptual experiences are more usually integrated. One experiences a semistructured set of possibilities, characteristic of relating in some way to some entity, but without the level of structure needed to situate that entity in a consensus world. So the body performs a sort of conjuring trick, yielding a partial sense of encountering something as present:</p>
			<p class="E">There are hallucinations because we have, through the phenomenal body, a constant relation with a milieu into which it is projected, and because, being detached from the actual milieu, the body remains capable of evoking a pseudo-presence of this milieu through its own arrangements. (356)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Interestingly, Merleau-Ponty denies that the assignment of a hallucination to a specific sensory modality, such as vision, audition, or touch, is a reflection of modality-specific experiential content. Hallucinations are bereft of sensory content. They are <i>expressed</i> in terms of one or another sensory modality because different senses lend themselves to the expression of different kinds of experience: &#8220;Each sensory field offers particular possibilities of expression to the alteration of existence. &#8230; The worlds of hearing and of touch are best able to represent a possessed, threatened, or leveled-out existence&#8221; (357). So a hallucination is actually a nonspecific sense of <i>being affected in some way by something</i>, which is then interpreted and articulated in terms of a particular sense: I see it; I hear it; it touched me. That said, I doubt that Merleau-Ponty would endorse a clear distinction between the &#8220;expression&#8221; of a hallucination through a given sensory modality and its crystallizing into a modality-specific experience. And it is perhaps too extreme to insist that hallucinations, even of this kind, involve no modality-specific phenomenology. Despite their degraded horizonal structure, these experiences need not be wholly bereft of perceptual solicitations such as moving one&#8217;s head to align one&#8217;s ear or, alternatively, to bring something into clearer visual focus. Depending on which practical dispositions remain engaged, the horizonal structure may be consistent with one or another sense. This also allows us to retain a contrast between monomodal hallucinations and the multimodal structure of veridical perceptual experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Even so, all that remains of perceptual experience is a <i>feeling of</i> perceiving something, of being <i>affected</i> by something in one or another significant way. Hence such an experience might be described as like perceiving <i>p</i> and yet&#8212;at the same time&#8212;as quite different from perceiving <i>p</i>. For example, in a first-person account of mescaline-induced hallucination, the phenomenologist and psychiatrist J. H. van den Berg (1982, 105&#8211;106) writes that, in one sense, he saw and heard nothing in addition to what he would more usually have seen or heard. Even so, he really was hallucinating. It was, he says, &#8220;as if the hallucination offered itself in the guise of perception so that it could be communicable.&#8221; Similarly, in <i>Autobiography of a Schizophrenic</i> <i>Girl</i>, Renee writes, &#8220;I cannot say that I really saw images; they did not represent anything. Rather I felt them&#8221; (Sechehaye 1970, 58&#8211;59). As in the case of VH/TI, this is consistent with the observation that delusions and hallucinations often involve a kind of double-bookkeeping, where the patient speaks and acts in ways that are in some respects consistent with believing or perceiving that <i>p</i>, but also speaks and acts in other ways that distinguish her attitude toward <i>p</i> from her ordinary perceptions and beliefs (e.g., Sass 1994; Bortolotti and Broome 2012).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Hallucinations of this kind are perhaps not so far-removed from certain, more familiar kinds of experience. For example, during the last ten years or so, I have increasingly suffered from acrophobia or fear of heights, something that often worsens with age (although my two children have recently cured me through exposure therapy, by repeatedly forcing me onto rollercoasters in Vienna&#8217;s Prater Park). On one occasion, while standing on a narrow, glass-sided walkway in a shopping center, about fifteen meters above ground level, I paused and tried to reflect on what I was experiencing. It was not so much that I was afraid of falling or of the walkway collapsing. Rather, it was already collapsing. The kinds of possibility consistent with a disintegrating walkway were there: the sense of helplessness, the inclination to cling onto something, a floor that appeared salient as it would if it were breaking apart. Yet, at the same time, it remained quite obviously intact. The one scenario was superimposed on the other. In the consensus world, things continued to unfold in ways that were entirely consistent with an intact walkway. But I was also affected in a way that could be expressed as &#8220;it is collapsing; there is nothing to cling onto; I am helpless.&#8221; The difference between this and a horizonal hallucination is that my sense of being rooted in a cohesive, consensus world ran contrary to the collapsing walkway and was preserved throughout. The collapse-experience was, if you like, phenomenologically quarantined. In contrast, Merleau-Ponty claims that horizonal hallucinations occur against the backdrop of changes in the overarching &#8220;style&#8221; of experience, something that he also refers to in terms of perceptual &#8220;faith&#8221; and &#8220;primordial opinion.&#8221; (This is to be identified with what Husserl calls &#8220;certainty&#8221; and what I have called &#8220;global anticipatory style&#8221;: a way of experiencing possibilities and their actualization that the overall structure of intentionality depends upon.) The perceived world loses its &#8220;expressive force,&#8221; allowing a bodily conjuring of possibilities to assume the &#8220;<span class="I">value of reality</span>&#8221; (358). So, although the hallucinatory world is still superimposed on an ordinary reality, the latter is not wholly intact:</p>
			<p class="E">The existence of the patient is decentered and is no longer accomplished in commerce with a harsh, resistant, and intractable world that is unaware of us; rather, it gradually exhausts itself in the solitary constitution of a fictional milieu. (358)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">There remains the question of what, exactly, a person experiences when he hallucinates in this manner. I have suggested that the experience is bereft of some or all characteristic sensory content. It is debatable what, exactly, the missing sensory content consists of in any given case. However, it at least includes a type and level of detail that is accessible only when a cohesive pattern of anticipation is resisted by the environment in ways that are unique to perception in one or another modality. Sense-specific properties such as color may also be absent. Then again, it seems plausible to insist that the contents of some memories and imaginings also include color. So it would be more accurate to say that horizonal hallucinations do not include colors that are integrated into wider situations in a cohesive, dynamic, and perception-specific way. Regardless of the precise details, if I have a horizonal hallucination of my wife standing in front of me, there is a sense in which I do not have a visual experience of my wife. Nevertheless, the experience can still have my wife as its content, insofar as the horizonal structure in question is specific to her, comprising a sense of relating to her and to nobody else. This particularity can remain even when that structure is diminished, when significant possibilities such as addressing her or moving so as to see the back of her head are absent. In contrast, when it comes to a hallucinated cup of coffee, it is doubtful that the horizonal structure would be specific enough to distinguish a particular coffee cup from all other coffee cups. Hence some such hallucinations will involve encountering distinctive particulars, while others involve encountering indistinguishable instances of types.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It is further questionable whether the horizonal structure of the experience is invariably specific enough to identify a type of entity. Take the example of hallucinating a hungry, fast-approaching tiger. Suppose one has the sense that something large, predatory, animate, and threatening is coming. This alone does not add up to an approaching tiger. But such experiences are most likely prone to further interpretation or imaginative embellishment. We also need to distinguish cases where possibilities that are specific to entity A are experienced in the absence of A and do not attach to a perceived entity from other cases where entity B is perceived and something of A&#8217;s horizonal structure is imposed upon it. Suppose one&#8217;s perception of an entity, such as a chair, were associated with a horizonal structure more typical of experiencing a hungry tiger. In one sense, the content of the experience would be unchanged: a wooden entity with four identical, cylindrical legs, a flat, horizontal surface, and a vertical back. At the same time, there would be a <i>feeling</i> of encountering something different. This could involve two overlapping horizonal structures that are in tension with one another, involving an invitation to sit down and a sense of being threatened by something animate. However, both structures would be importantly incomplete: the chair experience would occur in the context of wider disturbances in the modal structure of intentionality, while the tiger experience would not be embedded in a consensus world at all. In an alternative scenario, the tiger-horizon is not superimposed on anything else. Rather than seeing a chair as a tiger or somehow tiger-like, there is an ambiguous sense of the tiger&#8217;s presence, a characteristic way of being affected that persists even though it is not associated with a perceived object. Both scenarios differ from the kind of experience described in chapters 3 and 4. There, one does not experience possibilities that are specific to entity A in the absence of A, or experience them as superimposed on B. Rather, in virtue of possibilities that are associated with A, one takes oneself to be in intentional state <i>x</i> toward A instead of intentional state <i>y</i>. All three types of experience are largely attributable to a common, underlying phenomenological disturbance. It erodes a sense of the differences between intentional state types, rendering one vulnerable to more localized experiences with anomalous anticipation-fulfillment profiles.</p>
			<div><a id="part3"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">7.3 </span>Benevolent Voices</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Even if we acknowledge modal confusions, hypervigilance hallucinations, and horizonal hallucinations, the term &#8220;hallucination&#8221; no doubt admits further diversity. So, to reiterate, the focus of my discussion is not hallucination per se but some of those phenomena that are routinely labeled as hallucinations. Nevertheless, one might object that my account does not succeed in accommodating all of those phenomena that I have sought to address. To be more specific, I have argued that VH/TI and at least some external VHs are attributable to anxious anticipation, which arises against the backdrop of wider-ranging disturbances of intentionality. The contents of these experiences are generally unpleasant and reflect a person&#8217;s relationship with the social world as a whole. However, not all VHs are distressing. And, even when a person&#8217;s voices do cause her distress, she may have an ambivalent relationship with them rather than just wanting them to stop. For instance, one questionnaire respondent, who regards her voices as parts of herself with their own personalities, states that &#8220;with the parts that mimic my abusers, there&#8217;s a lot of shame, guilt, self-hatred, and fear. With other parts, there&#8217;s often fear and vulnerability.&#8221; But she also writes, &#8220;I can&#8217;t imagine life without my voices&#8212;I would be lost, lonely, and empty. I wouldn&#8217;t want to get rid of my voices&#8221; (5). As suggested in chapter 4, this kind of attachment to one&#8217;s voices may be explicable in terms of a need for interpersonal connection, which persists alongside a sense of other people in general as threatening in one or another way. The voices are anxiously anticipated but at the same time sought out, analogous to unkind &#8220;friends&#8221; to whom one continues to cling.</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, others report VHs that do not have distressing contents at all (Copolov, Mackinnon, and Trauer 2004; Watkins 2008). People can obtain consolation, support, and/or guidance from their voices, and a voice that was once abusive and distressing can eventually become benign or supportive. Some therapies therefore seek not to eliminate voices but to mitigate the distress they cause, by nurturing more positive relationships with them (e.g., Romme et al. 2009; Corstens, Longden, and May 2012). This also involves gaining or regaining some degree of control over them; more control is associated with pleasant voices, while lack of control is associated with distress (e.g., Nayani and David, 1996). I have argued that the experience of a voice as alien is <i>constituted</i> by a sense of passivity, disconnection from the social world, and anxious anticipation. If that is right, then surely voices should simply disappear in the absence of social estrangement and distress. However, anxious anticipation may not be the <i>only</i> way of anticipating thought contents that blurs the boundaries between intentional state types. Anticipating consolation and support from one&#8217;s thoughts may be amenable to a similar analysis. Although not alienating in the same way, it could still amount to an experience of thought content as emanating from elsewhere. Where a person has always &#8220;heard&#8221; comforting voices, this may well be what is happening. And, where previously hostile voices take on a supportive role, it could be that, once thought contents are already alienated, one is more susceptible to other ways of anticipating them that sustain a sense of their non-self-origin. My aim here has been to formulate a more generally applicable account of the modal structure of intentionality, using certain VH/TI experiences as a case study. This account is compatible with there being a much wider range of experiences that involve a partial sense of being in intentional state <i>x</i>, along with other aspects of experience that are more usually associated with state <i>y</i>. So, even if once malevolent but now benign voices do turn out to include internal VHs, there is no necessary tension here. Such experiences just point to the need for further analyses of specific phenomena, analyses that can draw on the same account of intentionality and interpersonal relations. Much the same applies to external VHs. Some of these are to be accounted for in terms of anxious hypervigilance, embedded in wider-ranging phenomenological disturbances, but, as the next section will make clear, not all of them take this form.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Another concern is that there are significant cross-cultural differences in voice-hearing experiences, and so my account may apply only to VHs in some cultures. For instance, Luhrmann et al. (2015) compared voice-experiences in groups of subjects from California, South India, and West Africa, all of whom met the same diagnostic criteria for schizophrenia. American subjects tended to use diagnostic labels, reported violent content, disliked their voices, and experienced them as an anomalous mind-thought relationship. In contrast, subjects from West Africa used no such labels, placed more of a spiritual emphasis on their experiences, and often regarded them as positive. In the sample from South India, there were no diagnostic labels and the voices were often experienced as those of relatives. These were interpreted spiritually and offered guidance. Among other things, Luhrmann et al. (2015, 655) conclude that &#8220;the voice-hearing experience outside the West may be less harsh.&#8221; Of course, in the absence of more detailed phenomenological analyses, it is not clear whether these experiences were all of the same broad type: internal or external. Even so, my emphasis on the many ways in which other people shape and regulate our experiences is consistent with there being considerable cross-cultural variation. If all these experiences do involve the modal structure of intentionality, what should we say about the differences between them? It could well be that differing cultural attitudes serve to intensify or diminish a sense of anxiety that is partly constitutive of some VHs. At the same time, it could also turn out that a pronounced sense of social isolation is common to all cases and that this alone is sufficient to alter the modal structure of intentionality. In the absence of heightened social anxiety, the relevant phenomenological change would not result in the kind of VH described in chapter 4, where negative, self-directed feelings are anxiously anticipated and experienced as alien. Nevertheless, it could nurture horizonal hallucinations that lend themselves to expression in VH terms. Certain culture-specific norms, narratives, and practices may even serve to foster these. Thus, although it is far from clear what to say about the full range of historically and culturally diverse experiences that might be labeled &#8220;voices,&#8221; there are no grounds for thinking that an analysis of local and global changes in the modal structure of intentionality is applicable only to a contemporary, culturally specific subset of experiences involving anxiety, alienation, and contingent interpretive practices.<sup><span id="n7-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-2">2</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">There are also hermeneutic issues to consider. When a voice is said to have become benign rather than to have disappeared, it is not clear that there is always a substantive difference between the two outcomes. In the absence of alienating distress, it could be that the voice is still identified as such by some residual property other than its alien quality and thematic content. So, as it was previously referred to as a &#8220;voice,&#8221; the label sticks. For instance, those whose imagination and/or inner speech always had pronounced auditory qualities might more be inclined to say that the voice is still there, even though it is no longer alien in the way it was.<sup><span id="n7-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-3">3</a></span></sup> But whether or not a person continues to report <i>hearing a voice</i> also depends on how she and others interpret and describe her recovery: &#8220;I hear voices but I am not psychotic anymore and it doesn&#8217;t have the same power over me as it used to. Now, I feel that my voices come from me. They are clouded memories of things that have gone on in my past&#8221; (Romme et al. 2009, 273). Where a voice persists without distress, it could well be that what made the original experience anomalous was a blurring of intentional state boundaries, and what gave the voice its alien quality was anxious distress. Once the alien quality and distress are subtracted, what remains, if we still want to call it a &#8220;voice,&#8221; need not differ in a clear-cut way from unproblematic experiences of remembering, imagining, or thinking. It is also notable that people who no longer hear voices are sometimes unable to say when the voices stopped (pers. comm.). Now, it could be that a distressing and salient experience somehow disappears unannounced, like a headache that torments you for most of the day until you notice at some point during the afternoon that it has gone. Alternatively, perhaps there is no fact of the matter. The term &#8220;voice&#8221; could encompass a range of characteristics, some of which fade while others remain. The referent of the term is probably not stable or consistent enough for us to determine exactly when or why a voice should be declared gone and when it should be said to persist but in a different form. I have sought to account for the experience of a voice as <i>alien</i>, as emanating from elsewhere. The object of my analysis is therefore more specific than the full range of experiences that the term &#8220;voice-hearing&#8221; potentially refers to.</p>
			<div><a id="part4"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">7.4 </span>Relating to the Dead</p>
			<p class="TxNI">For the most part, I have been concerned with hallucinations in psychiatric illness. However, another context in which VHs and other kinds of hallucinatory experience are widely reported is bereavement. Some post-bereavement hallucinations will almost certainly fall into categories already discussed. Where a bereavement is especially traumatic, and where the bereaved person feels progressively estranged from the social world as a whole and loses trust, the argument of chapters 5 and 6 will apply. But not all experiences of grief take this form, and perceptual or quasi-perceptual experiences of the deceased occur much more widely. &#8220;Sensed presence&#8221; experiences are most common; the person feels that the deceased is here, now, in a way that is not attributable to perception in one or another sensory modality. More specific auditory, visual, tactual, and olfactory experiences are also common. For example, a well-known study by Rees (1971) involved 227 widows and 66 widowers in Wales, around half of whom admitted having &#8220;hallucinations&#8221; or &#8220;illusions&#8221; of the deceased spouse: 39 percent of respondents reported a sense of presence, 14 percent visual experiences, 13.3 percent voices, and 2.7 percent tactual experiences. In some cases, these had occurred over many years, and the majority of those concerned (but not all) found them comforting and helpful. The likelihood of having such experiences increased with the length of a marriage, and they tended to be associated with happier marriages. Rees&#8217;s findings are consistent with more recent studies. For instance, Bennett and Bennett (2000, 140) report that perception-like experiences of the deceased are not specific to a particular stage in the grieving process and are often enduring. These can involve a nonspecific experience of &#8220;being watched&#8221; or &#8220;a full-blown sensory experience&#8212;olfactory, auditory, visual, and occasionally tactile.&#8221; Keen, Murray, and Payne (2013, 390) describe the most common type of experience as &#8220;a sense or feeling that the deceased person is close by without experiencing them in any sensory modality,&#8221; while noting that more specific sensory experiences are also common, especially auditory and visual experiences. They add that there is a degree of cultural variation, with up to 90 percent of bereaved spouses reporting sensed presence experiences in some cultures, and that these experiences are also met with a range of different cultural attitudes.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In a survey of all literature published on the topic in English-language peer-reviewed journals, Castelnovo et al. (2015) conclude from the various findings that perception-like experiences of the deceased arise with a frequency of between 30 percent and 60 percent in widows. Nonspecific feelings of presence are most common, followed by visual and then auditory experiences. There appears to be a correlation with level of attachment to the deceased, and there are conflicting findings regarding the relevance of marriage length. Likelihood of occurrence is not associated with depression or social isolation, but is associated with intensity of grief.<sup><span id="n7-4"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-4">4</a></span></sup> Duration varies considerably; they can occur over a short period of time or continue indefinitely. Castelnovo et al. (2015, 271) also remark that, despite their frequency, these phenomena are underexplored. Consequently, &#8220;the phenomenological nature of these experiences remains elusive.&#8221; Now, if we already had a good grasp of what seemingly modality-specific hallucinations and less specific perception-like experiences consist of, this would not be so much of a problem. But, unfortunately, &#8220;hallucination&#8221; refers to a wide range of different phenomena, which are seldom adequately distinguished from one another. So we should be wary of using the term here, at least without further qualification. It can be added that the term &#8220;hallucination&#8221; also conflicts with many people&#8217;s self-interpretations (Bennett and Bennett 2000), interpretations that are themselves likely to play some role in shaping, reshaping, and even eliciting the relevant experiences. For these reasons, some of the language adopted by Castelnovo et al. (2015) is problematic. They refer to &#8220;abnormal sensory experiences&#8221; (266) and to &#8220;sensory deceptions&#8221; (267). However, given the available data, plus an acknowledgment of the diversity of &#8220;hallucinations,&#8221; it is far from clear whether or in what way the relevant experiences are &#8220;sensory,&#8221; or whether they amount to &#8220;deceptions&#8221; at all. After all, even in severe psychiatric illness, it would be an oversimplification to regard hallucinations as simple deceptions, given a widespread ability to distinguish them from mundane perceptual experiences. As for &#8220;abnormal,&#8221; the authors do not wish to insist that the experiences in question are in one or another way pathological, and so the intended meaning is unclear.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This area of study thus illustrates the need for careful phenomenological research. Without it, we cannot say with any confidence what the relevant phenomena actually are, or whether all those who report perception-like experiences of the deceased have experiences that are similar in kind. Those studies that do adopt a more discerning approach point to the likelihood of considerable diversity. For instance, Normand, Silverman, and Nickman (1996) interviewed twenty-four bereaved children, all of whom had lost a parent when between the ages of ten and twelve. They describe how these children maintained connections with their deceased parents, how these connections differed, and how they developed over time:</p>
			<p class="E">For some the connection took the form of an interactive relationship with the spirit of the dead; for others, it resembled a chaotic relationship with a ghost. Yet others remained connected to their deceased parents by reviving memories from the past, while for some the connection gained an abstract quality by internalization of the deceased&#8217;s spirits. (94)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Some of those who initially remained connected through memories went on to develop a &#8220;more elaborate representation of the deceased as a spirit with whom they could communicate and therefore with whom they could maintain relationships&#8221; (95). In the context of such a relationship, how are we to interpret experiences like that of &#8220;being able to hear his father&#8217;s voice in his mind, answering his questions&#8221; (97)? Among other things, it is unclear whether such experiences involve a <i>sense</i> of perceiving, a <i>sense</i> of imagining, or aspects of both. Furthermore, returning to a theme of section 6.5, localized experiences of whatever kind could be embedded in wider &#8220;meaning-provinces&#8221; or &#8220;sub-universes,&#8221; such as make-believe realms that may or may not be experienced as unambiguously distinct from consensus reality. There is also the issue of whether and how children&#8217;s experiences at various ages differ from those of adults, where such differences may reflect subtle developmental changes in the modal structure of intentionality and in how experiences are interpersonally regulated.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Bereavement hallucinations, whatever they might turn out to consist of, are not simply perception-like experiences with specific contents. They arise in the context of dynamic and changing interpersonal relationships, both with the living and with the dead. Grief is not an emotional <i>state</i> or <i>episode</i> that persists for however long, but an interpersonal process that varies in character and duration (Klass, Silverman, and Nickman 1996; Parkes 1996; Solomon 2004; Goldie 2011, 2012; Ratcliffe 2016).<sup><span id="n7-5"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-5">5</a></span></sup> And the view that this process ultimately involves resigning one&#8217;s attachment to the deceased is, despite its popularity in some cultures, rather misleading. A growing literature on &#8220;continuing bonds&#8221; suggests instead that grief processes have no clear end point, and that relationships with the deceased are renegotiated and sustained in one or another way rather than abandoned (e.g., Klass, Silverman, and Nickman 1996). These continuing bonds are said to be ubiquitous and mostly healthy, rather than occasional and pathological (e.g., Silverman and Klass 1996, 3). Of course, we should be wary of making generalizations about what experiences of grief consist of, as there is considerable diversity. Differences are attributable to a range of factors, including the circumstances of the death, the nature of the bereavement (e.g., a spouse, sibling, or child), inherited and acquired dispositions and vulnerabilities, the effect on a person&#8217;s financial situation, and the availability of social support. There are also cultural differences to consider.<sup><span id="n7-6"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-6">6</a></span></sup> Even so, I think it is plausible to insist that grief, in general, is a multifaceted process that does not, or at least need not, conclude with <i>letting go</i>. For those who have experienced multiple bereavements, relations with the dead can be a salient aspect of daily life, perhaps more salient for some than relations with the living. Perception-like experiences of the deceased arise during the course of these relations. They can persist indefinitely, are often welcomed, and can constitute or contribute to enduring bonds with deceased.</p>
			<p class="Tx">During profound grief, systems of habitual expectation are profoundly disrupted and gradually altered. There is an alternation between retention and loss of habitual ways of experiencing the shared world, something that can involve experiences of both presence (including experiences of relating to and interacting with the deceased) and absence. A grieving process can include many different ways of experiencing and relating to the deceased. It might be as though he were still alive, even present in some way. He might also be experienced as remembered, as imagined, and as somehow present <i>in</i> his absence. I will later show how a current, ongoing relationship with the deceased can even involve a consistent sense of his irrevocable absence. There is a fine line between perceptual or quasi-perceptual experiences of presence and other ways in which a person might be experienced or thought of as enduring or even as <i>here, now</i>. He might continue to reside in the past, or in some other realm. And, alongside the feeling that <i>part of me has gone</i>, there can also be a sense that <i>he endures as part of me</i>, in the guise of commitments and values that are adopted, new ways of acting, and associated ways in which things appear salient and significant. So a sense of continuing presence need not involve relating to a localized entity that is experienced as wholly distinct from oneself. There are also experiences, which I will describe shortly, where what we might call a &#8220;sense of presence&#8221; is inseparable from how the world as a whole is perceived.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In considering the phenomenology of grief, it is again apparent that thinking of &#8220;hallucination&#8221; as a singular kind of experience, where something that is absent appears to be present, is an oversimplification. Grief involves a range of localized and nonlocalized experiences that do not involve taking someone to be present or absent in a clear-cut way. The sense of presence and absence is often much more equivocal and ambiguous. Consequently, although bereavement hallucinations may well turn out to be quite diverse in nature, it is very likely that most or even all of them do not conform to orthodox definitions of hallucination. Even where an experience of grief does not involve wide-ranging and enduring disturbances of intentionality, it should be acknowledged that the sense of perceptual presence is multifaceted and variable. So, in any given instance, it is far from clear what is meant by experiencing the deceased as present. As I will further argue in chapter 8, the modal structure of intentionality is not to be construed in terms of a few categorically distinct types of intentional states, which are only disrupted in extreme circumstances. The example of grief serves to make explicit something that applies more generally: neither our sense of <i>presence</i> nor our sense of <i>what is the case</i> is univocal. In addition, grief further illustrates how human experience is riddled with anticipation, in a way that is interpersonally regulated. Chapter 6 emphasized our relations with other people in general. But grief provides a complementary perspective on how the integrity of experience can come to depend on relations with particular individuals.</p>
			<p class="Tx">To illustrate these various points, let us turn to some recurrent themes in autobiographical accounts of grief. The accounts I will consider were all written by professional authors, who may be more inclined than others to express and interpret their experiences through narrative, and to do so in a particular way: &#8220;Writing is what I have, and it&#8217;s how I make sense of experience&#8221; (Humphreys 2013, 24). So they may not be representative of grief experiences more generally. Another concern to keep in mind is that it may not be possible to separate an experience of grief from the narratives that convey it, as it is arguable that grieving processes are partly <i>constituted</i> by dynamic narratives that shape and regulate experience (Goldie 2011; Higgins 2013). Furthermore, it is often remarked that grief is hard to express in words and hard for others to comprehend. Hence the relevant phenomenology cannot simply be &#8220;read off&#8221; first-person descriptions; we should interpret them cautiously. I concede that grief is expressed&#8212;and most likely experienced&#8212;in many different ways. Nevertheless, it is possible to identify a number of core themes that are common to many first-person accounts, themes that complement what I have said about the anticipatory structure of experience and its interpersonal regulation.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Simple descriptions and definitions of grief are easy to come by. For instance, Wilkinson (2000, 290) states that &#8220;someone is grieving only if the emotional response to a real or perceived loss (usually, though not necessarily, of another person) involves some degree of distress or suffering.&#8221; This might suggest that grief <i>follows</i> recognition of loss, whereas one could instead maintain (as I will) that grief is partly <i>constitutive</i> of that recognition. But, whichever the case, grief looks like an intentional state directed at something specific: one grieves over the death of A, in a way that is analogous to regretting that <i>p</i> or feeling happy about <i>q</i>. However, grief also involves a nonlocalized shift in how one experiences and relates to the social world, something that is inextricable from the more specific recognition that a particular individual has died. Whybrow (1997, 2) offers the following description:</p>
			<p class="E">When it strikes, the raw intensity of the feeling comes as a surprise. Life is rolled on its head, and we find ourselves off balance. Routine patterns and familiar assumptions are called into question. Social attachments of love and friendship that gave meaning and purpose are fundamentally changed. Inevitably we are confronted with the challenge of finding for ourselves a new fit with the world, for that which was once a stable and accustomed part of life&#8217;s routine has been irretrievably lost. The external world has changed and with it the inner world of personal meaning.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Why would the external world appear changed? We can understand this in terms of an effect on projects, pastimes, commitments, habitual activities, and expectations that explicitly or implicitly implicate the deceased in one or another way. Many of the social norms and roles that regulate activity apply to people in general: one walks on the footpath rather than the road, and one pays the cashier in a shop rather than the security guard, regardless of who one is. But what strikes us as practically meaningful and salient, &#8220;to be done,&#8221; &#8220;to be avoided,&#8221; &#8220;worth doing,&#8221; &#8220;exciting,&#8221; or &#8220;disappointing,&#8221; also depends on projects and wider concerns that are, to varying degrees, idiosyncratic. As argued in chapter 6, the ways in which things matter to us, the kinds of significance they have for us, are integral to our experiences of them (regardless of whether or not the significance of something is admitted as a content of more specifically <i>sensory perceptual</i> experience). A hammer <i>looks</i> different, depending on whether you have been searching for it while immersed in a DIY project or you are being chased by a hammer-wielding attacker. If nothing mattered in quite the same way, the world as a whole would look different.</p>
			<p class="Tx">How things matter to us depends in part on whom we are with, how we relate to them, and whom we share our various projects and wider concerns with. When we act purposively in relation to a goal-directed project, a particular person such as a spouse can be implicated in a range of ways: &#8220;I do it because you asked me to&#8221;; &#8220;I do it for you&#8221;; &#8220;I am doing it because you care&#8221;; &#8220;we do it together to achieve something that matters to us both&#8221;; &#8220;I am helping you to do something&#8221;; &#8220;you are there to fall back on if I fail.&#8221; Even when a project does not concern the person in any of these ways, there can remain the appreciation that &#8220;I will come home to you when it is finished&#8221; and &#8220;I will be able to tell you about it.&#8221; In fact, the telling can be anticipated as an end in itself, and thus motivate one&#8217;s activities:</p>
			<p class="E">As for doing what I liked: for me, this usually meant doing things with her. Insofar as I liked doing things by myself, it was partly for the pleasure of telling her about them afterwards. (Barnes 2013, 80&#8211;81)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Bereavement therefore undermines, to varying degrees, a previously taken-for-granted sense of what matters and how it matters. In so doing, it renders unintelligible a range of integrated practices that contributed to the world&#8217;s coherence, regulated activity, and shaped anticipation. Joyce Carol Oates (2011, 63) expresses this in terms of coming to inhabit a world of &#8220;things,&#8221; where &#8220;these <i>things</i> retain but the faintest glimmer of their original identity and meaning as in a dead and desiccated husk of something once organic there might be discerned a glimmer of its original identity and meaning.&#8221; The world ceases to offer what it once did, and, as what things offer is integral to how they look, the world as a whole is somehow different, lacking. C.&#160;S. Lewis (1966, 12) describes the sense of absence as follows: &#8220;It is not local at all. &#8230; The act of living is different through and through. Her absence is like the sky, spread over everything.&#8221; Julian Barnes (2013, 81) similarly writes, &#8220;I miss her in every action, and in every inaction.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">All or almost all of one&#8217;s interactions with the social world, and the anticipation-fulfillment patterns they involve, can come to presuppose a relationship with a particular person. Importantly, then, the deceased is not just a person <i>within</i> the experienced world but also an intelligibility condition <i>for</i> a world that was once taken as given. A singular experience of loss is both specifically focused and at the same time all-enveloping; that person is gone and the world as a whole lacks an elaborate, cohesive system of practical meanings that was previously experienced as integral to it.<sup><span id="n7-7"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-7">7</a></span></sup> One feels disconnected from everything, somehow dislodged: &#8220;There is a sort of invisible blanket between the world and me&#8221; (Lewis 1966, 5). This, I think, is why people sometimes say that part of them has died too. The sense of participating in a meaningful world depends not just on an isolated self and its projects but on relations with particular others:</p>
			<p class="E">Death feels a bit like a vanished city, like wandering through a landscape I used to recognize but that has now been radically altered. It was a mistake to think that life was solid ground under my feet, and that every day I would be able to step back down onto the same earth. To have you gone&#8212;you, who went clear to the bottom of my world&#8212;has thrown everything off balance, has left me wandering like a ghost in my own life. (Humphreys 2013, 58)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">It is not that one comes to believe that a particular person has died, at which point all activities instantaneously lose their meaning. Certain activities may be relatively well insulated from a bereavement. Oates (2011, 172) describes how she was able to retreat into her professional duties and temporarily reimmerse herself in the world through her teaching, an aspect of her life that had always been set apart from her relationship with her husband. And, where activities are not insulated, there is an ongoing alternation between retention and loss of practical meaning. It is commonplace to &#8220;know that <i>p</i>&#8221; in a propositional way while continually &#8220;forgetting that <i>p</i>&#8221; when habitually engaging with the world. For instance, one might reorganize an office, know where everything is, but continue to look for things in their former locations. Something like this happens in grief, but the experience is much more widespread. The interplay between habitual expectations and the episodic realization that there is no longer any prospect of their ever being fulfilled involves repeated experiences of negation, of continually confronting situations from which something is missing.</p>
			<p class="Tx">One form that retention of practical meaning can take is what Joan Didion calls &#8220;magical thinking.&#8221; Although one explicitly assents to the belief that someone has died, one continues to think and act in ways that conflict with it. The loss is conceived of as temporary and reversible, insulating&#8212;on some occasions and to some extent&#8212;the world from a collapse of practical meaning: &#8220;&#8216;Bringing him back&#8217; had been through those months my hidden focus, a magic trick&#8221;; &#8220;I realized that since the last morning of 2003, the morning after he died, I had been trying to reverse time, to run the film backward&#8221; (Didion 2005, 44, 183&#8211;184). So it is an oversimplification to state that one either &#8220;believes that A has died&#8221; or &#8220;believes that A has not died.&#8221; To fully comprehend that someone has died is not only a matter of explicitly acknowledging the irreversible absence of a particular entity from one&#8217;s world, given that a sense of that person&#8217;s being part of the world is also constituted by a wider context of experience, thought, and activity. Where part of a system of practical meanings endures consistently or sporadically, despite its dependence on the deceased, one might be said to <i>not quite believe it</i>&#8212;it doesn&#8217;t seem real; the world endures and yet it cannot endure. It would be equally wrong, however, to say that one does not believe it. As Parkes (1996, 65) observes, remarks such as &#8220;I can&#8217;t believe it&#8217;s true&#8221; are commonplace among the bereaved, but disbelief is &#8220;seldom complete.&#8221; Hence, in using the term &#8220;belief&#8221; to refer to the different degrees and kinds of comprehension at play here, we cannot think of it as a simple propositional attitude of the form &#8220;B believes that <i>p</i>,&#8221; where <i>p</i> is &#8220;A has died.&#8221;<sup><span id="n7-8"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-8">8</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">The effects of bereavement on how the world is experienced are not restricted solely to goal-directed projects and associated practical meanings. Chapter 6 addressed how being with a particular person can shape the wider salience of our surroundings in all sorts of subtle ways. For instance, the experience of seeing something with a particular person can differ substantially from that of seeing it on our own or with someone else. Experience shaping of this kind often involves face-to-face interaction or some other form of interaction. On other occasions, our experiences are influenced by imagining the person&#8217;s presence or imagining interaction with her. There are also occasions when she is not herself a salient object of experience but continues to be implicitly implicated in how the surrounding world appears. Although she is not present, things are experienced, in some respects at least, as they would be if she were present. A garden, a sunset, a film, a journey, a painting&#8212;all can appear in a habitual, prereflective way as they would for us, rather than for me alone. Grief can thus involve habitually experiencing something in a way that presupposes the potential or actual presence of the deceased, something that might then be disrupted by the realization of absence. For example:</p>
			<p class="E">Later, at the motel, I stand in the darkened living room and stare out at the dark ocean&#8212;a stretch of beach, pale sand&#8212;vapor-clouds and a glimpse of the moon&#8212;the conviction comes over me suddenly <i>Ray can&#8217;t see this</i>, <i>Ray can&#8217;t breathe. </i>&#8230; As I&#8217;ve been thinking, in restaurants, staring at menus, forced to choose something to eat. <i>This is wrong. This is cruel, selfish. If Ray can&#8217;t eat </i>&#8230; (Oates 2011, 244)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">So there is a way in which we might be said to experience the <i>presence of the deceased</i> that does not involve the localized, perception-like experience of another person but instead a diffuse way of encountering our surroundings. This can be contrasted with a nonlocalized revelation of absence, where an all-enveloping anticipatory structure is recognized as unfulfillable and the world as a whole appears consequently lacking.</p>
			<p class="Tx">These descriptions of how bereavement affects the structure of experience are compatible with empirical findings, which similarly suggest that relationships with specific individuals shape and regulate experience, thought, and activity in a range of important ways. For instance, Hofer (1984, 184) discusses how bereavement disrupts experience and thought, observing that there are &#8220;impairments of concentration, memory, judgment, and decisiveness, including illusions and even hallucinations of the lost person in 12&#8211;40% of cases.&#8221; All of this, he observes, adds up to a &#8220;sense of impending loss of control.&#8221; He mentions several parallels between grief and the effects of separation on infants, which together point to the conclusion that relationships in adult life continue to play important regulatory roles. More specifically, he hypothesizes that some symptoms of grief may be attributable to the &#8220;withdrawal of specific sensorimotor regulators&#8221; (188). In support of that view, Sbarra and Hazan (2008) propose that homeostatic processes are not encapsulated within the individual; they also include regulatory interactions with others, which serve above all else to sustain a sense of security:</p>
			<p class="E">When long-term mate relationships end, many adults lose the person who helps them maintain psychological and physiological homeostasis. In human attachments, the core of this homeostatic set point is the experience of felt security, a sense that the world is safe and nonthreatening and that exploratory activities can be pursued without the risk of danger. (2008, 142)<sup><span id="n7-9"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-9">9</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="TxNI">Of course, loss of an &#8220;interpersonal regulator&#8221; is not specific to grief. For instance, it could apply equally to the breakup of a long-term relationship or to leaving the parental home and moving to a new city. Even so, there are differences. For instance, where a relationship deteriorates before a breakup, there may be a gradual process of adjustment rather than a sudden shock, and there is often the option of returning to a place when feeling homesick. Not all bereavements are sudden and unexpected, and not all geographical moves involve the possibility of return. However, my claim is not that grief should be identified with the collapse of a regulatory process, just that this is an important aspect of grief. And, in certain other respects, experiences of grief are distinguishable from responses to other kinds of event. Most obviously, when grieving, one is confronted with the irrevocable absence of the deceased. Nevertheless, recognition of absence is not unequivocal or consistently maintained. For instance, grief is often associated with searching behavior (Parkes 1996, chap. 4). The bereaved person needs and seeks the deceased, in a way that can again be construed in terms of habitual, practical anticipation more so than propositional attitudes of the form &#8220;I desire to see A&#8221; and &#8220;I believe there is some likelihood of A&#8217;s appearing&#8221;:</p>
			<p class="E">I could not count the times during the average day when something would come up that I needed to tell him. This impulse did not end with his death. What ended was the possibility of response. (Didion 2005, 194)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">It is likely that not all searching ends unfulfilled. To account for some experiences of sensed presence, as well as more specific experiences in one or more sensory modalities, we can appeal to what Hoffman (2007) calls &#8220;social deafferentation.&#8221; To recap, the idea is that certain hallucinatory experiences involving other people are comparable to phantom limb experiences, and are generated in response to a lack of specifically social stimulation. While Hoffman associates these experiences with schizophrenia, which frequently involves social isolation, his account is perhaps better suited to experiences of grief. A specific individual can be so bound up with one&#8217;s experiencing, thinking, and acting that one constantly anticipates her presence, at least in some situations. There is a readiness to perceive, arising out of need and habitual expectation. Hence, where a situation is perceptually indeterminate or noisy, one is poised to sense her presence, hear her voice, or glimpse her.</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, it could well be that other experiences, which appear superficially similar, are in fact what I have called &#8220;horizonal hallucinations&#8221; rather than misinterpretations or overinterpretations of perceptual stimuli. Where the bereaved person is unusually passive, disengaged from activity, and removed from the social world, he will be more susceptible to having experiences of affective anticipation that do not attach to the perceived environment. And, if he has spent a great deal of time anticipating, interacting with, and thinking about a particular individual, he will be especially prone to experiencing possibilities that involve her. To the extent that an experience of possibility approximates a horizonal structure specific to the deceased, the relevant experience might be described in terms of perception in one or another modality, or a less specific sense of presence. There is also a potential role for nonperceptual imagination, in constructing make-believe realms or sub-universes that cultivate perception-like experiences of one or another kind, as well as for vivid memories that prime anticipation. And, as already noted, something of the other person also remains embedded in the world, in the guise of places, situations, or arrangements of possessions that implicate her actual or potential presence in some way. So the scene is already set for her arrival. Furthermore, a bereaved person may actively seek to preserve patterns of anticipation, and to interact with his surroundings so as to maintain and even amplify types of perception-like experience that form part of an enduring relationship with the deceased. This would be consistent with the observation that hallucinations can persist long after someone has apparently adjusted to a loss.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Along with localized and nonlocalized experiences of <i>presence</i>, there are also experiences of <i>absence</i>. The world as a whole may appear lacking, but such experiences can also be more specific in nature. A system of habitual, practical expectations that implicates person A includes the expectation of encountering A in particular situations and locations, such as when entering a certain room or engaging in an activity that involved A. When these expectations are negated by the explicit recognition of A&#8217;s irrevocable absence, the experience is comparable in some respects to Sartre&#8217;s (1943/1989) well-known description of waiting to meet Pierre in a caf&#233; when Pierre fails to arrive. Pierre&#8217;s absence is experienced in a localized way, when someone else enters and is encountered as &#8220;not Pierre.&#8221; And it is also experienced in a slightly more diffuse way. How the caf&#233; appears is shaped by the expectation of meeting Pierre; it is a background to an absent foreground. And, when that background endures, Pierre&#8217;s absence is present, akin to seeing a picture frame without a picture. A grieving process likewise includes frequent realizations that &#8220;A is not here&#8221; and, occasionally, &#8220;this is not A.&#8221; Some of these may be fleeting and others more enduring. In contrast to Sartre&#8217;s example, they are not restricted to a specific place or a single occasion. The presence of the deceased is anticipated in many different places and in many different kinds of social situation. So incessant experiences of absence become an inescapable aspect of grief.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Although grief involves wide-ranging disturbances of the anticipatory structure of experience, these are not usually pronounced or pervasive enough to induce modally ambiguous experiences of the kinds described in chapters 3 and 4. Loss of a particular person from one&#8217;s world, however close the relationship may have been, does not automatically amount to an all-enveloping loss of trust, confidence, or certainty, although it can do. How a grieving process unfolds depends in part on the nature of continuing relations with others. Interpersonal relations can help to sustain or restore trust in the world, and to preserve the overall integrity of experience. Among other things, other people participate in the construction and revision of narratives, which themselves aid in regulating experience and, more specifically, in shaping one&#8217;s changing relationship with the deceased (Higgins 2013). On the other hand, other people can exacerbate a sense of estrangement. For example, Aleksandar Hemon (2013, 203) remarks that &#8220;one of the most common platitudes we heard was that &#8216;words failed,&#8217;&#8221; but adds that &#8220;it was not true that there was no way to describe our experience.&#8221; What failed, he says, were platitudes and clich&#233;s that had little bearing on the situation. Whether others understand, fail to understand, listen, pretend to listen, offer what is perceived as genuine support, retain an emotional distance, or withdraw altogether further shapes how one experiences and relates to the world as a whole. Following a bereavement, everything seems different not only because someone has died but because others seem different too; and they do indeed act differently. So there is a fine line between profound grief and the global loss of trust or confidence described in chapter 5. Those who are recently bereaved are often more dependent than ever on others to regulate, sustain, and restore the integrity of experience, thought, and activity, and are therefore more vulnerable to others as well.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Grief thus involves a diverse, dynamic, and socially embedded interplay between experiences of localized and nonlocalized presence and absence. One does not simply come to recognize that a person was present at time 1 and became absent at time 2: &#8220;The paradox of grief: if I have survived what is now four years of her absence, it is because I have had four years of her presence&#8221; (Barnes 2013, 103). The sense of loss is to be understood in terms of this interplay; it is integral to the grieving process rather than a form of recognition that precedes and elicits grief. However, there are still further dimensions to explore, which again challenge any simple opposition between the experience of someone as present and as absent. It might be assumed that an experience of currently relating to somebody can be sustained only when one continues to experience or think of her as present in some way, and that full acknowledgment of absence implies the impossibility of such a relationship. But some narratives of grief suggest otherwise. For example, in her book, <i>Time Lived, Without Its Flow</i>, Denise Riley describes a profound transformation of her world that persisted for three years after the death of her adult son. She focuses on an experience of time as bereft of <i>flow</i>. It is not that <i>time for everyone</i> stopped flowing. What Riley describes is a sense of having been removed from the time of others, from a place where time still flows: it is a &#8220;sensation of having been lifted clean out of habitual time&#8221;; the &#8220;sensation of living outside time&#8221; (2012, 10, 45). This can be interpreted (in part, at least) in terms of something already described: the absence of a particular person from one&#8217;s world impacts, to varying degrees, on the anticipatory structure of experience, draining things of a significance they previously had. In the extreme case, nothing matters anymore, and significant transitions from one moment to the next are neither anticipated nor experienced; things still change but nothing meaningful happens. Barnes (2013, 84) offers the complementary remark that &#8220;grief reconfigures time, its length, its texture, its function: one day means no more than the next, so why have they been picked out and given separate names?&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">The experience could be construed as one of recognizing a person to be gone, and, in so doing, recognizing the loss of all those practical meanings that implicated him. But, although this has a role to play, it is not what Riley seeks to convey. She does not say that things ceased to matter due to an inability to relate to her son. Instead, she attributes her detachment from the social world and from shared time to an enduring relationship with him, of a kind that fully acknowledges his no longer being part of the world. This relationship amounts to a disengagement from the world of the living, a kind of participation in death: &#8220;I tried always to be there for him, solidly. And I shall continue to be. (The logic of this conviction: in order to be there, I too have died)&#8221; (2012, 21). Sustained concern for someone who is still alive can also constitute a sense of dislodgement from the wider world. For example, Hemon describes the experience of driving to the hospital to visit his terminally ill baby daughter:</p>
			<p class="Ef">It took me about fifteen minutes to get to the hospital, through traffic that existed in an entirely different space-time, where people did not rush crossing the streets and no infant life was in danger, where everything turned away quite leisurely from the disaster. &#8230; </p>
			<p class="El">I had an intensely physical sensation of being inside an aquarium: I could see outside, the people outside could see me inside (if they somehow chose to pay attention), but we lived and breathed in entirely different environments. Isabel&#8217;s illness and our experience had little connection to, and even less impact on, the world outside. (2013, 190, 201&#8211;202)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">However, what Riley describes includes something further: a sense of relating to someone <i>as dead</i>. The connection endures after the death, in a way that does not rely on a sense of continuing presence. Recognition of her son&#8217;s absence from the consensus world, combined with retention of a second-person connection in the face of it, amounts to a sense of her own separation from the world of the living:</p>
			<p class="Ef">My new ability to live in the present is a joining-in of that timelessness of being dead. &#8230;</p>
			<p class="El">You already share the &#8220;timeless time&#8221; of the dead child. As if you&#8217;d died too, or had lost the greater part of your own life. (2012, 23, 38)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">We might go so far as to construe this as a kind of <i>second-person experience of death</i>. I am thinking here of Edith Stein&#8217;s (1917/1989) account of empathy, according to which empathy is a way of <i>experiencing</i> the mental lives of others. There is, Stein admits, a substantial difference between first-person and second-person experience, between how I experience my own mental life and how I experience yours. But this is not to admit that the latter is a poor approximation of the former. Instead, they are two qualitatively different ways of accessing experience.<sup><span id="n7-10"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-10">10</a></span></sup> To some degree at least, I experience your mental life in your observed behavior. And, when I do so, I also have a more general sense of being in the presence of a locus of experience distinct from myself (Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 8). I suggest, somewhat tentatively, that such an approach can be extended to at least some grief experiences. One not only recognizes the absence of a person from one&#8217;s world; one also experiences, in a second-person way, the loss of intelligibility of <i>that person&#8217;s</i> world. Indeed, unless we acknowledge something like this, we risk construing grief as more self-absorbed than it often is, as a matter of what is lost from <i>my</i> world or <i>my</i> losing a certain relationship. What is needed is an account of its other-directedness, of its being concerned with what has happened to <i>you</i>, not just what has happened to <i>me</i>. Solomon (2004, 90) suggests that grief is not only a matter of <i>my</i> having lost someone; it is also a &#8220;continuation of love&#8221; for that person. The view that grief can involve a continuing second-person relationship with the deceased, one that incorporates recognition of her death, is consistent with this.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Other accounts also convey this aspect of experience, although not quite so explicitly. For instance, Helen Humphreys&#8217; <i>True Story: The Life and Death of My Brother</i> addresses him in the second-person throughout, sometimes referring to the time &#8220;after you died.&#8221; She relates to him, reaches out to him, while at the same time acknowledging his death. The distinction between retaining a second-person relation and recognizing its impossibility is not always clear. Consider the following passage from Joan Didion&#8217;s <i>Blue Nights</i>:</p>
			<p class="Ef">I know that I can no longer reach her.</p>
			<p class="El">I know that, should I try to reach her&#8212;should I take her hand as if she were again sitting next to me in the upstairs cabin on the evening Pan Am from Honolulu to LAX, should I lull her to sleep against my shoulder, should I sing her the song about Daddy gone to get the rabbit skin to wrap his baby bunny in&#8212;she will fade from my touch. (2011, 187&#8211;188)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Even so, I think this is plausibly interpreted in terms of a kind of relational, second-person experience that recognizes absence (and with it the impossibility of reciprocity), rather than in terms of an absence of second-person experience. Thus, some narratives of grief suggest that an enduring second-person connection with the deceased does not have to involve experiencing or thinking of the other person as still present in one or another way.<sup><span id="n7-11"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f7-11">11</a></span></sup> Riley states that the absence of flow she describes is specific to parental grief, and not unusual among bereaved parents. However, less pronounced or qualitatively different relational experiences of absence may well characterize grief more generally. If that is right, then it is likely that remarks such as &#8220;I died with her&#8221; and &#8220;part of me has died&#8221; are not always used in the same way. They can convey importantly different aspects of grief: a second-person experience of death that dislodges one from the world, and a diminishment of one&#8217;s world due to someone&#8217;s absence from it.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Once all of these aspects of grief are taken into consideration, it becomes clear that hallucinations and sensed-presence experiences, whatever their precise nature, do not simply involve experiencing something as present when it is actually absent. They are embedded within wider-ranging disturbances of the anticipatory structure of experience, a structure that is largely responsible for our sense of the distinction between presence and absence. They involve complicated interactions between experiences of localized and nonlocalized anticipation, fulfillment, and negation, interactions that are riddled with tensions and ambiguities. Even experiences that do seem to involve a localized sense of presence or to resemble perception in one or another modality most likely come in different forms. Some may occur when systems of anticipation that remain intact misinterpret noisy environmental stimuli, while others are horizonal hallucinations. It is unlikely that any such experiences involve a wholly perception-like experience of unambiguous presence. In fact, some experiences of the <i>presence o</i>f the deceased may not consist of localized content at all. A sense of personal presence can involve a much more diffuse experience of one&#8217;s surroundings, which are imbued with a significance they would have if the deceased were there, sharing in the experience. Other experiences involve the presence of absence, in the guise of negated expectation, while others involve enduring relationships with the deceased that fully recognize her irrevocable absence. In many cases, the lines between memory, imagination, expectation, belief, pretense, and/or perception are unclear.</p>
			<p class="Tx">When grief involves progressive loss of trust, social isolation, and, ultimately, the erosion of global certainty, it is consistent with the kinds of experience discussed in chapters 3 to 6. In all cases, though, it further illustrates the need for an approach that recognizes the complex and sometimes conflictual structure of intentionality, how the integrity of experience involves anticipation-fulfillment profiles, and how experience is interpersonally regulated. We might wonder, though, whether some of the observations made with respect to grief also have much wider applicability. In unexceptional situations, do we operate with a singular, unambiguous sense of presence, absence, what is the case, and what is not the case? Or are things messier than that? Focusing on the example of belief, I will conclude by suggesting that my consideration of unusual forms of experience serves to highlight something more widespread, something that is otherwise easily overlooked: how subtly different forms of intentionality are also at work in everyday life and, more specifically, in philosophical inquiry.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
