<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_008" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="chap8"/></div>
			<p class="CT">8 Metaphilosophical Conclusion</p>
			<p class="TxNI">I have argued that various kinds of anomalous experience, including many of those phenomena labeled as &#8220;hallucinations&#8221; and &#8220;delusions,&#8221; occur due to localized and/or global changes in the structure of intentionality. The sense of being in a given type of intentional state is not merely a matter of characteristic experiential content, and neither is it attributable to a separate attitudinal phenomenology or to a combination of attitude and content. It is multifaceted and centrally involves an anticipation-fulfillment dynamic that can be decoupled, at least to some extent, from characteristic content. So a temporal profile that contributes to the sense of being in one type of intentional state can be associated with content more typical of another. The result is an intrinsically peculiar and sometimes conflictual experience, which lies somewhere between more familiar forms of intentionality. Such experiences usually involve wider-ranging disturbances in the modal structure of intentionality as well. This structure is sustained by a distinctive, overarching style of anticipation, which is integral to practically engaged perceptual experience. The integrity of global anticipatory style depends on ways of anticipating and relating to other people. Hence pronounced and all-enveloping changes in how one experiences other people are, at the same time, disturbances in the overall structure of intentionality and even the most minimal sense of self.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This concluding chapter offers some brief and tentative remarks concerning the implications of this position for philosophy and for clinical practice. First of all, it should be conceded that what I have said is far from complete. I have not sought to provide a comprehensive analysis of the modalities of intentionality and their relationship to the interpersonal world, but instead to open up an area of philosophical inquiry where there is much work to be done. While my discussion has been restricted for the most part to broad categories of intentionality, such as remembering, perceiving, and imagining, we could go on to formulate more specific accounts of how and why certain subtypes of imagining or remembering are associated with a sense of perceiving through one or another sensory modality. There is also more to be said about the various constituents of the sense of being in an intentional state and how they interrelate. For all types of intentional state, we could seek to provide an inventory of characteristics that are individually necessary or jointly sufficient for the ambiguous, unambiguous, conflicted, or nonconflicted sense of being in an intentional state of that kind. Such a project would involve describing, in detail, the characteristic temporal profiles of different intentional state types, and specifying how they implicate and interact with one other. It would also involve further exploring the underlying sense of confidence or certainty that is central to the modal structure of intentionality, describing the many subtly different kinds of change it is susceptible to, and showing precisely how these alterations affect the more specific temporal profiles of intentional states. In addition to all of this, there is the issue of how various different degrees and kinds of alteration in how other people are anticipated and experienced impact on the modal structure of intentionality.</p>
			<p class="Tx">So one philosophical implication of my discussion is that it points to a novel field of philosophical inquiry and interdisciplinary research. However, there are also potential implications for how we conceive of philosophy itself. To be more specific, when we start to reflect on the possibility of subtle differences not just in the <i>contents</i> of philosophical beliefs but also in their <i>form</i>, we face the metaphilosophical problem of pinning down what it is to endorse one or another philosophical position. It is likely that belief in the truth of a philosophical position is not merely something that comes in differing degrees; philosophers also believe things in quite different <i>ways</i>, a point that applies equally to beliefs more generally. I have argued that a range of different factors contribute to a sense of something as present and to a more general sense of something as the case. Changes in the modal structure of intentionality can alter the sense of what it is to be the case, such that the phenomenological distance between belief and other forms of intentionality is lessened. Now, although such alterations are to be contrasted with more mundane forms of experience, this is not to imply that everyday perception involves a singular, unwavering way of experiencing things as present, or that everyday belief involves a similarly consistent way of taking things to be the case.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Most of us are familiar with subtle changes in the sense of presence. For instance, when we are suffering from a minor illness, our surroundings can seem oddly distant, as though things are not quite there. Elsewhere, I have described a wide range of changes in the overall structure of experience in terms of &#8220;existential feelings&#8221; (Ratcliffe 2005, 2008, 2015). Where more subtle changes are concerned, the integrity of intentionality is preserved. In other words, although perception is altered, it is not altered in such a way and to such an extent that it is no longer experienced as clearly distinct from other kinds of intentionality. Even without wide-ranging shifts in the structure of perception, we do not perceive everything as present in exactly the same way (No&#235; 2012). The sense of presence is multifaceted and some aspects of it can be more pronounced than others in a given instance. Much the same applies to belief. When we take something to be the case, we can do so in different ways. However, these differences are obscured by artificially tidy philosophical language that identifies a few categorically distinct intentional state types. Thus, discussions of belief are generally insensitive to the range of subtly different attitudes that are accommodated by the term, all of which might be described in terms of taking something to be the case, taking something to be true, or assenting to a proposition.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, I do not mean to imply that philosophers operate with a singular, univocal, and universally accepted conception of belief. Among other things, a philosopher might distinguish between conscious and nonconscious beliefs, and between perceptual and nonperceptual beliefs, as well as engage in debates over whether beliefs are episodes, dispositions, and/or states.<sup><span id="n8-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f8-1">1</a></span></sup> For current purposes, I restrict my consideration of belief to situations where a philosopher explicitly and honestly asserts that <i>p</i>. This does not just involve putting a tick next to a proposition; sincere expressions of belief also involve a <i>sense of conviction</i> with respect to <i>p</i>. I do not wish to suggest that an episodic feeling of conviction is sufficient for the belief that <i>p</i>, or that beliefs should be conceived of principally as conscious occurrences rather than longer-term dispositions. In fact, my position is compatible with a dispositional account of belief proposed by Schwitzgebel (2002), according to which the various dispositions that together add up to belief include &#8220;phenomenal and cognitive dispositions as well as behavioral dispositions&#8221; (249). In any given instance of belief, he argues, contributing dispositions can be present to differing degrees. This allows us to account for a range of in-between cases, where it seems wrong to say that someone believes that <i>p</i> but equally wrong to insist that she does not. Belief, for Schwitzgebel, is a &#8220;dispositional stereotype,&#8221; analogous to &#8220;being hot-tempered&#8221; (251). No single disposition is necessary or sufficient, and beliefs can depart from the stereotype in different ways. Among the relevant dispositions, Schwitzgebel includes a &#8220;disposition to feel assent to an internal utterance&#8221; (252), and this is what I am concerned with here. Although belief is not to be identified with consciously taking something to the case, it includes either doing so or at least having a disposition to do so. This is illustrated by the simple observation that someone who sincerely and repeatedly insists that not <i>p</i> (or who would emphatically insist that not <i>p</i> if asked) cannot be ascribed the unproblematic belief that <i>p</i>. I want to suggest that the <i>feeling of believing</i> associated with sincere assent, the <i>sense</i> of something as the case, is itself heterogeneous in nature. This further complicates the nature of belief.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The utterance &#8220;<span class="I">p</span> is the case&#8221; can involve different kinds of attitude, different ways of taking something to be the case, different kinds of conviction. We saw how this applies to delusional &#8220;beliefs&#8221; that involve double-bookkeeping. We also saw how a loss of trust, confidence, or certainty can lead to the erosion of a more usual sense of habitual, confident conviction: nothing is experienced as present or taken to be the case in quite the way it was. However, pronounced disruptions of intentionality such as these also serve to make explicit something that applies more generally, something subtle that might otherwise pass unnoticed. During the course of everyday life, we take things to be the case in different ways, an observation that also applies more specifically to philosophical beliefs. Our sense of something as the case or otherwise is, like the more general structure of intentionality, multifaceted. There is no singular feeling of conviction, no simple sense of believing. By implication, belief does not have a singular &#8220;functional role&#8221; either. Depending on the kind of felt conviction involved, a belief content could relate to other intentional state contents and to actual or potential activities in any number of different ways.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Experiences of grief, as described in chapter 7, can involve especially pronounced tensions between different ways of taking something to be the case. A person can utter the proposition &#8220;B is dead&#8221; and know the proposition to be true, but at the same time not quite believe it. The world does not appear as it would if B were irrevocably absent; it continues to be experienced through a system of habits that are inextricable from her relationship with B. Different utterances of the proposition &#8220;I believe that B is dead&#8221; can thus involve different kinds of conviction. Even where the truth of the proposition &#8220;B is dead&#8221; is never in any doubt, a sense of conviction can be incomplete, lacking, in conflict with the habitual anticipation of B&#8217;s presence. More generally, beliefs can relate in different ways to the practically significant, shared world in which we are for the most part habitually immersed. They are often immediately relevant to goal-directed activities and may have significant practical implications. Take, for instance, the belief that a tram is fast approaching and the associated decision not to cross the road in front of it. Such beliefs are also firmly rooted in a consensus reality. As I wait with others, the tram appears as something <i>we</i> experience together; it is <i>we</i> who wait for it to pass. Contrast this with the kinds of idiosyncratic superstition that most people&#8212;when pressed for a while&#8212;will eventually confess to, such as believing that wearing a particular pair of shoes when going out on a Friday night is unlucky, that one needs to conduct a little private ceremony before giving a talk, or that one can influence the course of life events in all manner of other peculiar ways. It would be an oversimplification to say that a person does not believe such things, pure and simple. When pressed, he might well say &#8220;of course I know it is not the case that <i>p</i>,&#8221; where <i>p</i> is something like &#8220;touching the wall before I leave the house will ensure that nothing goes wrong today.&#8221; And yet someone who does not perform one or another ritual may subsequently feel uncomfortable, anxious that something will indeed go wrong as a result. There is a kind of conviction involved, but one that is removed, to varying degrees, from the consensus world and from all those things that are taken to be the case in another kind of way. Only when the referent of &#8220;belief&#8221; is identified exclusively with this latter kind of conviction does the person honestly and unequivocally assert the belief that not <i>p</i>.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What, then, of philosophical beliefs&#8212;could the category &#8220;philosophical belief&#8221; encompass different kinds of conviction, where those differences generally pass unacknowledged? Plausibly, yes. Consider some remarks by William James, to the effect that the endorsement of broad philosophical doctrines is more a matter of feeling than an outcome of reasoning and argument: &#8220;in the metaphysical and religious sphere, articulate reasons are cogent for us only when our inarticulate feelings of reality have already been impressed in favor of the same conclusion&#8221; (1902,74). Now, even if this is true, it does not imply that adopting a philosophical position can involve different <i>ways of believing</i>. All it suggests is that feelings steer us toward philosophical beliefs with one or another content. But James&#8217;s view is more complicated than this. He claims that different philosophical <i>temperaments</i> amount to different ways of experiencing one&#8217;s relationship with the world, involving different <i>senses</i> of reality. Here is how he contrasts his own philosophical world with that of the rationalist:</p>
			<p class="E">The &#8220;through-and-through&#8221; universe seems to suffocate me with its infallible impeccable all-pervasiveness. Its necessity, with no possibilities; its relations, with no subjects, make me feel as if I had entered into a contract with no reserved rights, or rather as if I had to live in a large seaside boarding-house with no private bed-room in which I might take refuge from the society of the place. &#8230; It seems too buttoned-up and white-chokered and clean-shaven a thing to speak for the vast slow-breathing unconscious Kosmos with its dread abysses and its unknown tides. (James 1912, 276&#8211;278)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The universe in which James lives, and from which his philosophy springs, differs not only in content but also in form from that of the rationalist. This interpretation is consistent with James&#8217;s earlier account of the different &#8220;sub-universes&#8221; we inhabit (also mentioned in chapter 6), where he indicates that the worlds of everyday life, of science, of religion, and of madness differ not only in terms of content; they also have different &#8220;styles&#8221; of existence (James 1889). The rationalist believes certain things in a different <i>way</i> to James; her beliefs are decoupled from how she experiences the world, and the flag of truth is instead placed in an abstract, purified realm. So the disagreement, as he diagnoses it, is not merely a matter of different belief contents, toward which the two parties are steered in part by different feelings. It is also a difference in their respective senses of conviction, in <i>how</i> something is taken to be the case or otherwise. For James, a certain kind of conviction is not appropriate to the &#8220;vast slow-breathing unconscious Kosmos.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">The view that philosophical belief encompasses different kinds of intentionality is also complemented by Schutz&#8217;s (1945) development of James&#8217;s ideas (introduced in chapter 6). For Schutz, the difference between a set of religious beliefs and a set of scientific beliefs is not just a matter of content, or at least need not be. The belief systems arise, he suggests, in the context of different &#8220;provinces of meaning&#8221; (referred to by James as sub-universes), each of which has its own distinctive &#8220;cognitive style.&#8221; And what Schutz means by a cognitive style is a way of believing, a kind of intentionality. As he puts it, the worlds of &#8220;dreams, of imageries and phantasms, especially the world of art, the world of religious experience, the world of scientific contemplation, the play world of the child, and the world of the insane&#8221; all have &#8220;a specific accent of reality&#8221; (1945, 552&#8211;553). These forms of conviction, he adds, are all abstracted to varying degrees and in different ways from what he calls the world of &#8220;work,&#8221; from purposive, practical engagement in a shared, consensus realm. Other meaning provinces are &#8220;modifications&#8221; of this &#8220;paramount reality,&#8221; all of which involve a selective loss of structure (555). As we saw in chapter 6, imagination involves a departure from the overarching style of anticipation and fulfillment that is integral to perceptual experience. Schutz indicates that the same applies to belief. There are different ways of believing, which depart, in more or less subtle ways, from taking something to be the case or otherwise in the course of our habitual, purposive, practical engagement with the world.</p>
			<p class="Tx">When previously held beliefs are revised or altogether rejected, the process does not always involve simple acknowledgment of falsehood or implausibility. Belief change does not just concern the <i>contents</i> of beliefs; it can also involve recognizing that a <i>type</i> of conviction previously adopted was somehow inadequate to a given subject matter. We first take ourselves to believe that <i>p</i>, and then come to appreciate that we did not really believe that <i>p</i>. For example, Susan Brison (2002, x), herself an academic philosopher, describes how she found her philosophical beliefs ineffective, even irrelevant, in the face of traumatic experience inflicted by another person: &#8220;When I was confronted with the utterly strange and paradoxical, philosophy was of no use in making me feel at home in the world.&#8221; Such experiences can present one with a stark contrast between different kinds of conviction. Even if one has always explicitly and honestly endorsed the proposition &#8220;the world is unsafe,&#8221; one might do so with a different kind of conviction after experiencing traumatic events. It was in relation to an abstract realm, a realm somehow removed from everyday life, that the proposition &#8220;the world is unsafe&#8221; was accepted. In another way, the world was never taken to be unsafe; all experiences and activities were permeated by prereflective, habitual confidence and trust. Traumatic experience can thus make explicit the differences between kinds of conviction, ways of taking things to be the case, which may be adequate to one meaning province but ineffective or irrelevant with respect to another. In the case of trauma, certain kinds of conviction reveal themselves as inadequate to one&#8217;s &#8220;paramount reality.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">A particularly striking illustration of contrasting forms of conviction can be found in Jean Am&#233;ry&#8217;s book, <i>At the Mind&#8217;s Limits</i>, which recounts his experience of torture and subsequent incarceration in Auschwitz. At one point, he compares the reality of life in the camp to the continuing attempts by some prisoners to pursue intellectual debates:</p>
			<p class="E">To reach out beyond concrete reality with words became before our very eyes a game that was not only worthless and an impermissible luxury but also mocking and evil. &#8230; Nowhere else in the world did reality have as much effective power as in the camp, nowhere else was reality so real. (1999, 19)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Such debates, he maintains, involved a type of conviction that had no bearing on the reality he and they were confronted with. In the case of philosophical utterances, he remarks:</p>
			<p class="E">Where they still meant something they appeared trivial, and where they were not trivial they no longer meant anything. We didn&#8217;t require any semantic analysis or logical syntax to recognize this. A glance at the watchtowers, a sniff of burnt fat from the crematories sufficed. &#8230; In the camp the intellect in its totality declared itself to be incompetent. (19)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Although the circumstances he describes are quite exceptional, and the contrast especially heightened, explicit recognition of different ways of believing also occurs in a range of other situations. For instance, in his first-person account of grief, C.&#160;S. Lewis (1966) describes an associated crisis of religious faith. Among other things, this involved a realization that beliefs he previously held concerning illness, death, isolation, and their compatibility with a benevolent God were decoupled from the realities of these phenomena:</p>
			<p class="E">If my house has collapsed at one blow, that is because it was a house of cards. The faith which &#8220;took these things into account&#8221; was not faith but imagination. The taking them into account was not real sympathy. If I had really cared, as I thought I did, about the sorrows of the world, I should not have been so overwhelmed when my own sorrow came. It has been an imaginary faith playing with innocuous counters labelled &#8220;Illness,&#8221; &#8220;Pain,&#8221; &#8220;Death&#8221; and &#8220;Loneliness.&#8221; I thought I trusted the rope until it mattered to me whether it would bear me. Now it matters, and I find I didn&#8217;t. (1966, 32&#8211;33)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">What Lewis&#8217;s grief exposes is a kind of pseudo-conviction. In one sense, his earlier beliefs about illness, death, pain, and loneliness were quite sincere and held with genuine conviction. Yet they were removed from the realities of phenomena and related instead to an imagined world. In this latter world, phenomena are replaced by &#8220;counters&#8221; or linguistic concepts that move freely of the paramount reality where grief and loneliness are felt. So beliefs of this kind involve a kind of oblivious make-believe, a simulacrum that the person fails to explicitly distinguish from a more fundamental sense of rootedness in an interpersonal world. For Lewis, this style of conviction collapses when the reality of grief turns out to demand something quite different in kind.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, differences between forms of philosophical conviction are not ordinarily so extreme. Nevertheless, they remain a potential source of confusion. Given the limitations of the current philosophical lexicon, it is in fact quite possible to believe that <i>p</i> while at the same time believing that not <i>p</i>. Indeed, the coexistence of subtly different attitudes of &#8220;belief&#8221; with conflicting or even contradictory contents may well be ubiquitous. By implication, it is also possible for one philosopher to believe that <i>p</i> while another believes that not <i>p</i>, without there being any straightforward disagreement between them.<sup><span id="n8-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f8-2">2</a></span></sup> The relevant beliefs can involve different attitudes, different ways of taking something to be the case, different meaning-provinces. Hence, when it comes to philosophical debate, disagreements often prove elusive, and it is commonplace for neither party to find the other&#8217;s arguments compelling. I think this is what James is attempting to describe in the following passage:</p>
			<p class="E">[The philosopher] <i>trusts</i> his temperament. Wanting a universe that suits it, he believes in any representation of the universe that does suit it. He feels men of opposite temper to be out of key with the world&#8217;s character, and in his heart considers them incompetent and &#8220;not in it,&#8221; in the philosophical business, even though they may far excel him in dialectical ability. &#8230; There arises thus a certain insincerity in our philosophic discussions: the potentest of all our premises is never mentioned. (1907/1981, 8&#8211;9)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The feeling that someone is &#8220;out of key with the world&#8217;s character&#8221; can involve, I suggest, a sense that he has adopted the wrong kind of conviction toward a subject matter, a way of believing that is somehow inappropriate to it. As with some delusions and hallucinations, everyday life and also philosophical thought can involve forms of double-bookkeeping: we believe something in one way while not believing it in another. However, where everyday and philosophical beliefs are concerned, the phenomenon is more subtle. For instance, none of the relevant beliefs are formed in isolation from a wider community, at least not to the same extent.<sup><span id="n8-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f8-3">3</a></span></sup> If all of this is right, we are faced with the difficult tasks of specifying the kind of conviction that is appropriate to a given subject matter, what the criteria are for determining appropriateness, what kind of normativity is involved in appropriateness, and whether different kinds of conviction are appropriate to different areas of philosophical enquiry. Such issues will also complicate discussions of rationality. Whether or not a given combination of beliefs is to be deemed rational will depend on whether or not those beliefs are all of the same type. All of this makes doing philosophy more difficult and, I would say, even more interesting.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The argument of this book also has potential implications for neurobiological research and clinical practice. With regard to the former, a detailed phenomenological account of local and global changes in the structure of experience can serve to sharpen up the explananda for scientific study, and to distinguish phenomena that might otherwise be regarded as belonging to the same psychological type, as in the case of VHs (verbal hallucinations). In addition, I have suggested that more emphasis needs to be placed on the interpersonal, the social, and the cultural, thus emphasizing the limitations of approaches that restrict themselves to what is going on inside an individual&#8217;s brain.</p>
			<p class="Tx">As for psychiatry, my emphasis has not been so much on the legitimacy of one or another established diagnostic category. Instead, I have sought to formulate a wider perspective, a way of thinking that clarifies the relational dimensions of psychiatric illness. Nevertheless, I have also suggested that VHs of one or another type are not reliably associated with specific diagnostic categories. Neither are they to be regarded as isolated symptoms; they involve wide-ranging disturbances in the structure of experience and cannot be adequately understood in isolation from those disturbances. I have not ruled out the possibility of tidying up diagnostic categories, in order to distinguish between causal processes and/or the types of outcome (including kinds of experience) that one or more processes lead to. For instance, in the case of &#8220;schizophrenia,&#8221; it could well be that a subset of schizophrenia diagnoses correspond to a certain type of causal process, a distinctive type of &#8220;self disorder,&#8221; or both. Phenomenological analysis has an ongoing role to play here, in uncovering differences between phenomena that might otherwise be regarded as similar in kind, and in identifying underlying commonalities between phenomena that are superficially different (Minkowski 1970). It can therefore contribute to the revision and fine-tuning of diagnostic categories, so long as those categories remain based, at least in part, on the relevant phenomenology.</p>
			<p class="Tx">That said, I am doubtful that the best way to proceed is by identifying clusters of symptoms and associating them with diagnostic labels. Alterations in an overarching sense of confidence or certainty can involve long-term processes that are inextricable from changing relations with other people. A disturbance in the modal structure of intentionality could result from any combination of prior vulnerabilities, anomalous experiences, traumatic events, other life events, long-term situations involving other people, how a person reacts to his anomalous experiences, how other people react to him, how experiences are interpreted, and so forth. Importantly, in most cases, the trajectory will be shaped by how other people respond at one or another stage. Now, diagnostic categories can be conceived of in a more or less committal way. For instance, one could regard them as objective disease categories or merely as pragmatically motivated idealizations that are useful for at least some purposes. However permissively they might be regarded, the kinds of experience addressed here should at least be construed in a <i>dynamic</i> way, in terms of intra- and interpersonal processes of variable duration as opposed to freeze-framed symptom clusters. This is compatible with the retention of diagnostic categories that acknowledge the interpersonal and social dynamics of psychiatric illness. But perhaps they are not needed. Such processes could just as well be conceptualized in terms of idealized life-narratives, which capture individual cases with varying degrees of success by drawing on many different areas of expertise and sources of evidence. When presented with a particular case, a clinician or therapist could use one or more of these exemplars in order to make causal associations, anticipate unfolding patterns, and consider appropriate responses, gradually moving from the general to the particular.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What I am thinking of is similar in some respects to what De Sousa (1987, 182), in addressing the nature of emotion, calls &#8220;paradigm scenarios.&#8221; His suggestion is that we learn to label our various emotional responses and to associate them with types of situation through exposure to and enculturation into shared narratives and performances. A paradigm scenario is a culturally variable exemplar that serves to illustrate how a type of emotion plays out and also to specify when it is appropriate. The development of an emotional repertoire thus depends on education and training, on learning what to feel and when to feel it. The process has no clear end point and people&#8217;s emotional lives have differing degrees of sophistication:</p>
			<p class="E">We are made familiar with the vocabulary of emotion by association with <i>paradigm scenarios</i>. These are drawn first from our daily life as small children and later reinforced by the stories, art, and culture to which we are exposed. Later still, in literate cultures, they are supplemented and refined by literature. Paradigm scenarios involve two aspects: first, a situation type providing the characteristic <i>objects</i> of the specific emotion-type &#8230; and second, a set of characteristic or &#8220;normal&#8221; <i>responses</i> to the situation, where normality is first a biological matter and then very quickly becomes a cultural one. (De Sousa 1987, 182)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In an analogous way, idealized narratives can enable clinicians, researchers, and others to recognize salient situation-response patterns, as well as identify potentially appropriate ways of further exploring and intervening in those patterns. Such narratives can also guide interpretation by patients, clinicians, and others, which itself has an important role to play in shaping and regulating the experience and behavior of all parties concerned. Disturbances in the modal structure of intentionality, and the ways in which these disturbances unfold, cannot be separated from interpersonal and social relations. So we are most likely faced with a range of different processes and outcomes, which depend in part on how people relate to and interpret each other within wider social and cultural contexts. For this reason, idealized narratives, along the lines briefly sketched, may well be the most we can realistically hope for, at least where the various predicaments addressed here are concerned. At a given time, an individual case might resemble however many narratives to differing degrees and in different ways. And it is not clear that labeling these narratives and then insisting that the labels amount to rigid &#8220;diagnoses&#8221; would render them any more enlightening or practically informative.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, some stories are more accurate than others, and some are more effective than others in furthering one or another aim. I have proposed that, to understand the kinds of experience associated with many forms of psychiatric illness and how those experiences arise, we need to acknowledge the following: (a) the modal structure of intentionality and its susceptibility to disruption; (b) the extent to which the integrity of experience depends on relations with others; and (c) the various ways in which erosion of trust, confidence, or certainty can come about. These themes can assist us in understanding a person&#8217;s current predicament, how it originated, where it is likely to lead, and how its trajectory might be influenced. Disruptions of the structure of intentionality, however they might occur, are always to some extent relational in nature, rather than purely individual phenomena. So intervention of whatever kind involves engaging in a relational and potentially transformative interpersonal process, rather than treating something that unfolds in relative isolation from social conditions. Although there are many kinds of vulnerability, many trajectories, and many subtly different outcomes, I have emphasized throughout that forms of loneliness and social estrangement are central to the worlds of many psychiatric patients. This applies to some philosophical orientations as well.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
