<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_006" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="chap6"/></div>
			<p class="CT">6 Intentionality and Interpersonal Experience</p>
			<p class="TxNI">This chapter further explores how interpersonal relations shape and regulate the structure of experience. In so doing, it develops the position introduced in chapter 5, according to which perceptual experience incorporates a distinctive kind of anticipation-fulfillment dynamic, upon which the modal structure of intentionality depends. My central claims are as follows: (a) disturbances of <i>global anticipatory style</i> are inextricable from changes in how one experiences and relates to other people; (b) these disturbances can lessen differences between the characteristic <i>temporal profiles</i> of intentional states (where a temporal profile is the anticipation-fulfillment pattern that is typical of one or another type of intentional state); and (c) temporal profiles are central to, but not exhaustive of, the sense of being in a given type of intentional state. </p>
			<p class="Tx">The chapter begins by addressing how perceptual experience is interpersonally regulated, after which it considers the implications of this for our understanding of belief. The discussion of belief draws on themes in the work of Jaspers and the later Wittgenstein, which complement and enrich the position attributed to Husserl in chapter 5. This is followed by a brief consideration of the anticipatory structure of memory. I then bring together the various strands of argument from this and earlier chapters in order to offer a full statement of my central thesis, according to which the sense of being in a given intentional state is largely attributable to its distinctive temporal profile. Next, I turn to the links between trauma (in particular, childhood trauma) and psychosis, to further support my position. In so doing, I ask whether and how certain forms of experience associated with trauma are distinguishable from those associated with schizophrenia diagnoses. I also offer an interpretation of the text <i>Autobiography of a Schizophrenic Girl</i> (Sechehaye 1970), to illustrate how a greater emphasis on the relational structure of experience can prompt us to reinterpret first-person accounts. The chapter concludes with some tentative remarks on how a phenomenological account of the modal structure of experience and its vulnerability to disruption can be brought into mutually illuminating dialogue with neurobiological research on predictive coding.</p>
			<div><a id="part1"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.1 </span>The Interpersonal Regulation of Experience</p>
			<p class="TxNI">During the course of everyday life, interpersonal interactions shape our wider experiences of the world in various subtle ways. How our surroundings appear is partly a reflection of whether we are with others, what they are doing, and how we relate to them. This is not to suggest that whether or not we see a cup or a car, a red thing or a green thing, depends on our interpersonal situation. Rather, what appears salient to us and the kinds of significance things have for us depend, in part, on our relations with others. By implication, what we anticipate from our surroundings is interpersonally shaped. The point applies both to relations with specific individuals and to relations with other people in general. Regarding the former, van den Berg (1972, 65) makes the following observations:</p>
			<p class="E">We all know people in whose company we would prefer not to go shopping, not to visit a museum, not to look at a landscape, because we would like to keep these things undamaged. Just as we all know people in whose company it is pleasant to take a walk because the objects encountered come to no harm. These people we call friends, good companions, loved ones.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Interaction with a particular person can drain the surrounding world of its significance or, alternatively, enrich it with salient possibilities that would otherwise be lacking. The point is not exclusive to perceptual experience; it applies equally to interpreting and finding significance in past, present, and anticipated events, to anything that matters to us:</p>
			<p class="E">We all know people with whom it is best not to share anything that matters to us. If we have experienced something exciting, and if we tell it to those people, it will seem almost dull. If we have a secret, we will keep it safe from those people, safe inside us, untold. That way it won&#8217;t shrivel up and lose all the meaning it has for us. But if you are lucky, you know one person with whom it is the other way around. If you tell that person something exciting, it will become more exciting. A great story will expand, you will find yourself telling it in more detail, finding the richness of all the elements, more than when you only thought about it alone. Whatever matters to you, you save it until you can tell it to that person. (Gendlin 1978/2003, 115)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Of course, the reliability of casual phenomenological reflection can be challenged, but it is not our only source of evidence. Such observations are consistent with the results of empirical studies on the interpersonal effects of gaze and expression. For instance, Bayliss et al. (2007, 644) found that another person&#8217;s emotional reaction to a target object influences one&#8217;s own appraisal of it: objects looked at with a happy expression by someone else are subsequently liked more than those looked at with disgust. Evaluation does not seem to require a nonperceptual judgment, made on the basis of a prior perceptual experience. These and other findings better complement the view that evaluative properties are experienced as inherent in objects: &#8220;observing another person gazing at an object enriches that object of motor, affective and status properties that go beyond its chemical or physical structure&#8221; (Becchio, Bertone, and Castiello 2008, 254). Consistent with this, explicit consideration of other people&#8217;s reactions is not needed; the effect is something we are susceptible to even when we are unaware of it. Hence other people&#8217;s responses to features of the shared environment are not just objects of perception; they also shape our own experiences of the environment.<sup><span id="n6-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-1">1</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">How we experience our surroundings is also influenced by an appreciation of potential interactions with others who are co-present. How something appears salient and significant is often symptomatic not just of <i>what I could do</i> but of what might be achieved in cooperation with others, <i>what we could do together</i>. This is especially so when immersed in shared tasks of whatever duration and complexity, where the perceived significance of things reflects what others are doing, what they ought to be doing, and what they are expected to do (e.g., Sebanz, Bekkering, and Knoblich 2006; Sebanz and Knoblich 2009). To extrapolate from this, how others affect one&#8217;s experience presumably depends more specifically on the affective style of actual and anticipated relations with them. How the surrounding world appears when one is with a group of good friends surely differs markedly from how it appears when one is confronted by a gang of knife-wielding strangers.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It has been further proposed that what we anticipate from other people influences our perceptual experiences in much the same way as our own anticipated actions. When we initiate actions, their predicted sensory consequences usually attenuate incoming sensory signals. Although the postulated mechanisms are largely nonconscious, there are corresponding phenomenological differences between the effects of self-produced and non-self-produced changes in sensory stimulation. For instance, most people cannot tickle themselves; the experience is less intense than that of being tickled by someone else, and perhaps qualitatively different as well (Blakemore, Wolpert, and Frith 2000). Now, in this case, there is a contrast between the effects of self-produced and other-produced sensory stimulation. All the same, this is compatible with there being further differences between the sensory effects of anticipated and unanticipated other-produced stimulation, between an anticipated tickle and an unanticipated one. In fact, differences between experiences of self- and other-produced stimulation may be largely attributable to the fact that exactly what the other person will do and when she will do it is usually less clear. To anticipate being tickled is not to anticipate precisely how you will be tickled. In addition, self-tickling and being tickled by someone else are likely to involve different patterns of affective anticipation. And, as argued in chapter 4, affective anticipation can shape what is subsequently experienced. Another possibility to consider is that differences between self- and other-produced sensory changes may be especially pronounced in the case of self-touch, but not when it comes to the perceived effects of acting on the surrounding environment.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Thus, where experiences of self- and other-produced action involve the same style of affective anticipation, and where there is a similar degree of indeterminacy concerning the nature and timing of an anticipated outcome, it is possible that perception of the surrounding environment is affected in a similar way. According to Sebanz and Knoblich (2009, 358), this is indeed the case: one&#8217;s own actions and those of a &#8220;co-actor&#8221; are &#8220;represented in a functionally equivalent way.&#8221; For instance, when you press a button to produce a tone, the tone is perceived as less intense than when it occurs without prior anticipation, and the same applies when you see someone else pressing it.<sup><span id="n6-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-2">2</a></span></sup> The point extends to the regulation of action. What others do and when they do it can be &#8220;as effective for anticipatory action control&#8221; as &#8220;internal signals about one&#8217;s own actions&#8221; (Sebanz, Bekkering and Knoblich 2006, 74). If this is right, our encounters with other people have a significant influence on our wider perceptual experience. Whether and how something appears salient depends in part on what is anticipated from others: how they act, how they are likely to act, and what effects their actions are likely to have. Even when nobody else is actually present, experience is plausibly shaped by the anticipated presence of others and by what one expects from them, as illustrated by the contrasting styles of affective anticipation when walking around a deserted cemetery on a dark night and when walking through an empty public park in a safe area on a sunny morning.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It might be objected that none of this concerns our <i>sensory</i> perceptions of things. First of all, we have a sensory experience of <i>p</i>. Then we register someone else&#8217;s presence, direction of attention, and emotional reaction, perhaps along with her actual and potential relationship to oneself. Finally, we make a value judgment that is separate from the earlier perceptual experience of <i>p</i>. However, there are reasons to prefer the view that we <i>experience</i> our surroundings as we do in virtue of how we have related to others (specific others or others in general) in the past, how we currently relate to them, and how we anticipate relating to them. For the most part, we <i>do</i> experience the significance of an entity as inherent in it: a pen appears relevant to us in the context of writing; an ice cream looks enticing on a hot day. We do not usually have to make a separate value judgment. It would be implausible to maintain that we must resort to this in all those cases where other people are somehow implicated. Consistent with this view, the empirical studies I have mentioned take themselves to be exploring a low-level phenomenon, involving an involuntary effect that occurs even when we are not encouraged to attend to or reflect on what others are doing.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, it could still be maintained that the experience includes more than just sensory perceptual content, according to one or another theory of content. But my concern here is with <i>how the world appears to us</i>, as distinct from what we might explicitly infer from appearances. And this contrast can be maintained without having to insist that immediate experience of our surroundings is exclusively a matter of sensory perception. In referring to perceptual experiences and what they incorporate, I am thinking simply of those experiences that present their objects as &#8220;here, now,&#8221; as present. The relevant phenomenology can be addressed without getting dragged into debates over how to individuate sensory modalities and how to distinguish perceptual from nonperceptual content, debates that also encompass various nonphenomenological considerations. Nevertheless, as we will see, the aspects of experience considered here are inseparable from an anticipation-fulfillment structure that is specific to perceptual experience, and thus inseparable from the <i>sense</i> of perceiving. So any account of sensory perceptual experience that excluded them would also have to exclude this sense. And, as argued in chapter 2, the sense of perceiving is more plausibly regarded as partly constitutive of both &#8220;perceptual experience&#8221; and &#8220;perception.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">The view that we regulate each other&#8217;s perceptual experience and activity in a range of ways, often without the mediation of propositional thought, is consistent with recent &#8220;enactivist&#8221; approaches to intersubjectivity, according to which coordination and understanding between two or more parties often depends on patterns of interaction between them that cannot be reduced to the cognitive achievements of separate individuals (e.g., De Jaegher and Di Paolo 2007; Fuchs and De Jaegher 2009). For instance, Froese and Fuchs (2012, 205) describe a kind of &#8220;inter-bodily resonance between individuals&#8221; that generates &#8220;self-sustaining interaction patterns.&#8221; Face-to-face interaction with another person can assist us in understanding (and perhaps, to some extent, experiencing) her mental life. At the same time, it also shapes how we experience the surrounding world. And, even when we are not explicitly attending to and seeking to make sense of another person&#8217;s activities, interaction continues to influence how our surroundings are experienced. As Gallagher (2009a, 298, 303) observes, these two aspects of interpersonal experience are closely related but distinguishable:</p>
			<p class="E">Making sense of the world together (in a social process) is not the same thing as making sense of another person within our interactive relationship. &#8230; The presence of others calls forth a basic and implicit interaction that shapes the way we regard the world around us.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Take the example of reading a book to one&#8217;s child. In his absence, the book might appear tedious, devoid of significance. Yet, as he smiles, frowns, gestures, and expresses curiosity, and as one responds in complementary ways, a shared experience of the book develops. One continues to distinguish &#8220;my experience of the book&#8221; from &#8220;his experience of the book&#8221; and might well direct one&#8217;s attention toward the latter. But there is also &#8220;our experience&#8221; of the book, a sense of its significance &#8220;for us,&#8221; which is sustained and regulated by interaction between the two parties.<sup><span id="n6-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-3">3</a></span></sup> Similarly, when walking through a city with him, the salience of one&#8217;s surroundings is partly a reflection of his needs, vulnerabilities, and concerns, and how these relate to one&#8217;s own actual and potential activities. A road appears hazardous, a steep escalator treacherous, and a box of Star Wars Lego in a shop window conspicuous. One does not have to think &#8220;He likes Lego,&#8221; or somehow come to like Lego oneself, in order to experience a Lego Millennium Falcon as immediately relevant in the context of a shared situation.<sup><span id="n6-4"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-4">4</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">There are also stronger claims in some of the enactivist literature, concerning the dependence of subjectivity itself on interpersonal interaction. For instance, McGann and De Jaegher (2009, 430) write that &#8220;a subject is not fully constituted outside of the interaction, independently of it. A subject, instead, is partly constituted in and through the interaction.&#8221; Complementary claims have been made about intersubjective development, to the effect that infant&#8211;parent interactions are integral to a developmental process through which the sense of self is formed. According to Reddy (2008, 149), the self is &#8220;a dialogic entity, existing only in relation and therefore knowable only as a relation. Other-consciousness, therefore, is inseparable from self-consciousness, and perhaps both should be called self-other-consciousness.&#8221; Zeedyk (2006, 321) similarly claims that &#8220;subjectivity arises out of intimate engagement with others,&#8221; that emotional interaction with caregivers enables the development of capacities including self-awareness and consciousness.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Zahavi (2014, 27&#8211;28) rightly responds that such claims are often unclear about the kind of &#8220;self&#8221; at stake. For instance, in suggesting that self is formed through interpersonal processes, Maclaren (2008, 65) refers to capacities for &#8220;agency, self-possession, and self-governance.&#8221; These arguably do not relate to the most primitive or &#8220;minimal&#8221; sense of self but to a richer conception, one that goes beyond merely being a subject, to further include reflective self-regulation or &#8220;governance&#8221; of conduct. For similar reasons, it must be conceded that what I have said up to this point is importantly lacking: even if we accept that interpersonal processes can enrich, diminish, and transform the nature of <i>what</i> a person perceives, remembers, or imagines, it remains the case that she perceives it, remembers it, or imagines it. In other words, the modal structure of intentionality, the sense of being in state <i>x</i> rather than <i>y</i>, is unaffected by these processes. If I am right in associating minimal self with the modal structure of intentionality, then minimal self is equally unaffected.</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, it is arguable that interpersonal processes (and their absence) can further contribute to the sense of which intentional state one is in or was in, at least in certain exceptional situations. If something looks somehow odd, you might rub your eyes or shake your head to confirm that you are seeing it right, and our checking procedures often rely on other people in much the same way. In addition to or instead of adjusting our own perceptual apparatus, we seek out others in order to interpret and validate our experiences. Suppose you see something utterly strange and surprising, such as a person walking past on the street, wearing a Darth Vader costume, pulling a zebra on a lead, singing &#8220;House of the Rising Sun,&#8221; and kicking passers-by. A first reaction might be to wonder &#8220;What is happening?&#8221; or even &#8220;Is this really happening?&#8221; and to look for similar reactions of surprise from others. The feeling of bewilderment would be even more pronounced in a situation where everyone else on the street appeared utterly indifferent to the situation, as though nothing out of the ordinary were happening or nothing were happening at all. After an unusual event, there may also be a felt need to tell people about it, something that can involve interpreting and reinterpreting your experiences in cooperation with others. In the absence of certain kinds of interpersonal process, at the time and/or afterward, you might start to wonder, &#8220;Did I actually see that?,&#8221; &#8220;Did I misperceive?,&#8221; &#8220;Have I imagined it?,&#8221; &#8220;Am I really remembering this?,&#8221; &#8220;Did that actually happen?&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">Even if this much is conceded, such indeterminacies and doubts are surely rare. So it might seem that interpersonal situations only occasionally influence the sense of one&#8217;s intentional state. Importantly, though, I am not concerned exclusively or even primarily with how a particular situation is experienced&#8212;a meeting with B or a journey with C. How we experience any such situation is also attributable to the global style of interpersonal anticipation introduced in chapter 5. Ordinarily, this takes the form of habitual confidence or trust. Even when we feel threatened or otherwise unsafe, the situation is experienced as anomalous, as a departure from what is more usually the case. To assess whether and how changes in interpersonal experience can affect the modal structure of intentionality, we also need to consider the potential impact of all-enveloping shifts in how one anticipates, experiences, and relates to other people in general.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In reflecting on how interpersonal encounters are more usually shaped by a deep-rooted and nonlocalized form of trust, I find it helpful to draw on the work of L&#248;gstrup (1956/1997). According to L&#248;gstrup, whenever we enter into a relationship with someone, of a kind that might open up significant possibilities and thus enrich our experience, we inevitably render ourselves vulnerable to being affected in other ways too, to having our world somehow diminished. Likewise, we cannot avoid having some effect on the other person, some degree of &#8220;power&#8221; over him. The world-shaping effects of interpersonal interaction can be subtle and short-lived or pronounced and enduring:</p>
			<p class="E">By our very attitude to one another we help to shape one another&#8217;s world. By our attitude to the other person we help to determine the scope and hue of his or her world; we make it large or small, bright or drab, rich or dull, threatening or secure. We help to shape his or her world not by theories and views but by our very attitude toward him or her. (L&#248;gstrup 1956/1997, 18)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Relating to someone in a distinctively <i>personal</i> way thus involves exposing ourselves to the possibility of harm, while anticipating that we will not be harmed. L&#248;gstrup refers to this combination of vulnerability before another person and openness to being affected by her as <i>trust</i>:</p>
			<p class="E">Trust is not of our own making; it is given. Our life is so constituted that it cannot be lived except as one person lays him or herself open to another person and puts her or himself into that person&#8217;s hands either by showing or claiming trust. (1956/1997, 18)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Consistent with the discussion of chapter 5, trust of this kind is not just an attitude adopted toward some people on some occasions, perhaps friends rather than strangers. Instead, it is our default attitude toward other people in general, an overarching style of anticipation that determines how we relate to people and, consequently, how they shape our wider experience. Granted, we depart from it on occasion, when we distrust someone in particular or exercise caution. However, as with Husserl&#8217;s &#8220;problematic uncertainty&#8221; (introduced in sec. 5.5), such occasions are localized departures from something that is more usually taken for granted.</p>
			<p class="Tx">L&#248;gstrup further suggests that socially decontextualized encounters between people would involve an uncomfortable experience of vulnerability and overexposure. So it is not just a matter of trust. Most interpersonal encounters and relations are further regulated by shared practices and conventions, which facilitate the development of trusting relations by reducing mutual exposure. On the other hand, they also provide ways of avoiding interpersonal openness by allowing one to hide behind behavior-prescribing norms and standardized performances. I suggest that trust is equally implicated in the sustenance of this support structure. A global breakdown of trust in others would also impact on the acceptance of norms and conventions. If others in general are not to be trusted, then practices that depend on their behaving in certain ways are not to be trusted either. So everything would be tainted with an air of unpredictability, and interpersonal encounters would be anticipated in the absence of mediating social structures that more usually help to frame and regulate them.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Experience of our surroundings is thus shaped by (a) habitual trust in other people in general, (b) the anticipated and actual effects of encounters with specific individuals, and (c) wider social structures that regulate interpersonal encounters. The global anticipatory style of interpersonal experience (a) influences all of our experiences of particular individuals and social situations, and a change in (a) therefore implies changes in (b) and (c). With this in mind, let us consider what would happen if there were a substantial shift in the balance between vulnerability and trust. Suppose others in general were anticipated in the guise of threat, where the source, nature, and timing of any anticipated harm remain ill-defined, thus amounting to a pervasive feeling of vulnerability and uncertainty.<sup><span id="n6-5"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-5">5</a></span></sup> As we saw in chapter 5, experiences like this can arise due to traumatic events, especially those that involve being deliberately harmed by others, and they may come about in other ways as well. Take an extreme case: suppose the prospect of confirming, sharing, interpreting, and reinterpreting experience through relations with others were altogether absent from one&#8217;s world; they no longer present such possibilities and instead appear menacing and unpredictable. This, I maintain, would indeed affect the modal structure of experience, and in a profound way. There are several contributing factors to consider, and it is when we take into account their combined effects that a compelling case emerges.</p>
			<p class="Tx">First of all, where there is no prospect of interpersonal validation or challenge, one might be more inclined to accept the deliverances of unusual experiences. More importantly, though, alienation from others in general would erode the sense of being firmly rooted in a shared, consensus world. The contrast between what is there for all of us and what is not would therefore be less pronounced. Nothing would be experienced as <i>there for all of us</i> in quite the way it was. So, although one might be more inclined toward accepting certain things, this would involve a different way of &#8220;taking something to be the case,&#8221; a different kind of acceptance. I will return to this point in section 4.2, when I discuss belief.<sup><span id="n6-6"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-6">6</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">What we anticipate from the world is also shaped by projects of whatever duration, along with associated configurations of equipment. Confident anticipation of events depends largely on the integrity and coherence of projects and wider concerns, which specify to varying degrees what will happen and when, what ought to happen, and what effects one&#8217;s actions are likely to have. Almost all projects implicate others in one or another way. Hence, as mentioned in chapter 5, an inability to trust other people in general would impact on what is anticipated from the world as a whole. In a world where others offer only uncertainty and threat, shared projects would collapse and various activities would present themselves as effortful, perilous, and perhaps doomed to failure.<sup><span id="n6-7"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-7">7</a></span></sup> Furthermore, equipment would no longer appear dependable, insofar as it is designed, constructed, used, and maintained by other people. Given the role that interrelated projects more usually play in grouping things together into salient, cohesive, and predictable patterns, the structure of experience would be to some extent degraded. The world would have a different affective tone, where things that were once anticipated with habitual confidence now seem unsafe, uncertain, and less coherently organized. This would also add up to a pervasive experience of <i>passivity</i>. Rather than being comfortably immersed in a social world, where situations invite effortless responses to meaningful possibilities, one would feel helpless, incapable, and disengaged from everything. Loss of trust thus involves what we might call &#8220;diminished agency&#8221; (Ratcliffe 2013a,b, 2015; Benson, Gibson, and Brand 2013). And, I suggest, where there is a constant, all-enveloping experience of disengagement, passivity, and lack of control over one&#8217;s situation, the phenomenological distance between <i>actively</i> initiating something and <i>passively</i> receiving it from elsewhere will be lessened to some degree. This could increase one&#8217;s susceptibility to more pronounced, localized disruptions of phenomenological boundaries such as that between thinking that <i>p</i> and perceiving that <i>p</i>. Returning to a theme of chapter 3, this is where we should be appealing to loss of the sense of agency, rather than trying to account for VH/TI (verbal hallucination/thought insertion) more directly in those terms.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Another factor to consider is the interpersonal regulation of emotion and feeling. Chapter 4 argued that internal VHs occur due to a certain <i>way</i> of affectively anticipating one&#8217;s own thought contents, something that is embedded in wider-ranging disturbances of affective anticipation. More generally, both localized and wider-ranging changes in the structure of intentionality involve altered affective anticipation. As I have further argued in this chapter, the affective tone of experience is inextricable from anticipated and actual interactions with particular people, and also from a wider style of interpersonal anticipation. That view is complemented by recent discussions of emotion regulation. Gross (1999, 2001) makes an overarching distinction between &#8220;antecedent-focused&#8221; and &#8220;response-focused&#8221; regulation strategies, where the former involve acting before an emotional response is generated and the latter involve influencing an emotion that is already occurring. There is also a distinction to be drawn between reflective or effortful and nonreflective strategies. All of these strategies can be, and often are, interpersonal or social in nature. Whether and when a given type of emotion occurs is partly attributable to interpersonal processes. Indeed, it has been suggested that, when studying emotion regulation in humans, it may be more appropriate to treat the &#8220;dyad&#8221; as a &#8220;unit of analysis&#8221; than the individual (Diamond and Aspinwall 2003, 146). As Griffiths and Scarantino (2009, 445) remark, society depends on people having &#8220;the right emotions at the right times, and it is not left to individual psychological processes to ensure that this occurs.&#8221; It is arguable that emotions are socially regulated to such an extent that certain <i>types</i> of emotion could not occur at all outside of interpersonal processes. Slaby (2014, 41), for instance, maintains that nothing else is &#8220;as emotionally engaging as the expressivity of fellow humans,&#8221; and that &#8220;individuals as well as groups can draw us into emotional experiences that we would not be able to experience on our own.&#8221; These experiences plausibly include distinctive patterns of affective unfolding, which take shape as we are drawn into interpersonal interactions and become comfortably immersed in them. With a pervasive loss of trust, others are no longer experienced as offering the possibility of such interactions.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Colombetti and Krueger (2015) point out that emotion regulation also involves trusting various impersonal environmental resources, meaning that we habitually depend on their having certain effects. Trusted regulators for a given individual might include clothes, cinemas, art galleries, churches, charms, mementos, letters, smoking, drinking coffee, and listening to music. It is clear that our confidence in most of these resources, perhaps all of them, implicates other people in one or another way. If one could not feel at ease in the presence of others, one could not become comfortably immersed in a film at the cinema or in the communal atmosphere of a church service. And, to the extent that one enjoys drinking and smoking with other people in a given social environment, the regulatory effects of these pastimes depend on who else is there and how one relates to them. As for the effects of music, these can involve the elicitation of all sorts of interpersonal feelings. Changes in the style of interpersonal experience could thus influence which feelings, if any, a piece of music elicits.<sup><span id="n6-8"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-8">8</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">When we combine (a) lack of interpersonal validation, (b) loss of phenomenological coherence, (c) disengagement from practical activity, and (d) wide-ranging disruptions of affect regulation, it becomes clearer how changes in interpersonal experience could affect the modal structure of intentionality. Among other things, the anticipation-fulfillment structure of perceptual experience would become closer to that of imagination. It would be isolated to some degree from the public world, disengaged from practical activity, no longer regulated by shared concerns, less coherent in structure, and its deliverances would not be subject to interpersonal scrutiny. This, I suggest, could render a person susceptible to more localized and intense disruptions in the structure of intentionality, of the kind detailed in chapters 3 and 4. It could also nurture hypervigilance hallucinations. Where the integrity of perceptual experience is disrupted, there is more noise&#8212;more ambiguity and indeterminacy. This is accompanied by a disposition to interpret noise in a particular way, in line with an overarching style of affective anticipation.<sup><span id="n6-9"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-9">9</a></span></sup></p>
			<div><a id="part2"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.2 </span>Ways of Believing</p>
			<p class="TxNI">A pervasive alteration in what is anticipated from other people and from the world in general also affects the <i>form</i> of belief, the <i>way</i> in which a person believes. As we saw in chapter 5, Husserl (2001, &#167;6, p. 67) notes that perception and belief share the same modalities, and suggests that this is no coincidence: the modal structures of both belief and perception depend on an overarching anticipatory style that is integral to practically engaged perceptual experience. Now, taking something to be the case in the form of a belief does not involve integrating it into the anticipation-fulfillment structure of perceptual experience, in the way that encountering it as present does. However, it does at least involve taking it to be part of a world in which one is rooted. And the sense of being rooted in a world is constituted by the global style of perceptual experience. Hence disturbances of perceptual style affect one&#8217;s grasp of what it is to be the case or otherwise, and much of what applies to perceptual experience applies equally to belief. In chapter 5, I considered both delusional atmosphere and traumatic experience, but left unresolved the issues of how (a) delusional atmosphere involves the interpersonal, and (b) delusional atmosphere is to be distinguished, phenomenologically, from traumatic experience. One might think that Jaspers&#8217; account of schizophrenic delusions crystallizing out of an all-enveloping atmosphere is best construed in individualistic terms: a difficult-to-describe endogenous disturbance induces an unpleasant feeling of indeterminacy and tension, which is resolved through the formation of delusions with more determinate contents. However, in a short section entitled &#8220;Psychological Digression,&#8221; he offers the following remarks, which indicate the need to place more emphasis on the interpersonal and the social:</p>
			<p class="E">Normal convictions are formed in a context of social living and common knowledge. Immediate experience of reality survives only if it can fit into the frame of what is socially valid or can be critically tested. &#8230; The source for incorrigibility therefore is not to be found in any single phenomenon by itself but in the human situation as a whole, which nobody would surrender lightly. If socially accepted reality totters, people become adrift. &#8230; Reality becomes reduced to an immediate and shifting present. (Jaspers 1963, 104)<sup><span id="n6-10"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-10">10</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="TxNI">At least three interrelated themes can be discerned here and further developed. First of all, beliefs are ordinarily formed in the context of relations with others, who provide testimony, instruction, confirmation, clarification, and correction. So, in the absence of these relations, belief-formation processes would be quite different. Second, where beliefs are not formed through interpersonal processes that align them with shared knowledge, their contents will differ. Third, and most important, the attitude of belief itself presupposes a grasp of the distinction between <i>p</i> being the case and <i>p</i> not being the case. Someone who lacked the usual sense of that distinction could not <i>believe</i> in quite the same way as those who take it as given. And Jaspers maintains that taking something to be the case ordinarily involves taking it to be part of a publically accessible, consensus world. If none of one&#8217;s beliefs developed in the context of that world or were ultimately embedded in it, one&#8217;s sense of the contrast between being the case and not being the case would be altered or diminished. This, I take it, is why Jaspers (1963, 105) goes on to remark that &#8220;reality&#8221; for the patient &#8220;does not always carry the same meaning as that of normal reality.&#8221; The boundaries between intentional state types are configured differently. More specifically, reality becomes &#8220;an immediate and shifting present.&#8221; The temporal consistency of belief depends on its being anchored in an enduring, structured, public world, in which one has a largely consistent set of ongoing practical concerns. Isolated from the social world, from coherent patterns of shared, goal-directed activities, and from accountability to others, one&#8217;s convictions would become more ephemeral, transient, and idiosyncratic. Importantly, belief would lack a certain <i>temporal</i> coherence that is more usually integral to our sense that something is the case. The contrast between being integrated into a pattern of confident, coherent anticipation and fulfillment, and standing out in contrast to such a pattern, would therefore be diminished or otherwise altered. As with perceptual experience, this would render belief closer in structure to the temporal profile(s) of imagining.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It follows that delusions, at least in this scenario, are not simply anomalous beliefs. Like internal VHs, they have a type of intentionality that differs from mundane experiences of believing, remembering, imagining, and perceiving. This is consistent with the observation in chapter 3 that delusions can involve a form of double-bookkeeping: the person seems both to believe that <i>p</i> and not to believe that <i>p</i>. The kind of intentionality at play is neither belief nor something wholly different from belief. It does not conform to neat, tidy, categorical distinctions between a few established intentional state types. Moreover, until it is made sufficiently clear which of many subtly different kinds of intentionality the term &#8220;belief&#8221; does encompass and which it does not, there can be no fact of the matter as to whether or not delusions of this kind are beliefs. Although the <i>attitude of belief</i> is altered, such that it is more transient and no longer grounded in a public world of shared concerns, this is compatible with the inflexible endorsement of delusional &#8220;beliefs.&#8221; Where delusions are concerned, stubborn conviction and recalcitrance to change can be symptomatic of a <i>kind</i> of conviction that is importantly different from that more usually involved in firmly held belief. In the more usual case, a belief is firmly held because it is integrated into a shared, public world to such an extent that it is taken for granted. At the very least, it is shared by a group of people with whom one identifies in some way. Delusional beliefs are inflexible precisely to the extent that they are <i>not</i> anchored in a shared world and are therefore impervious to the influence of social, regulatory practices. So, in one scenario, certainty is symptomatic of being comfortably immersed in a shared world while, in the other, it is symptomatic of precisely the opposite. What we have are different <i>kinds</i> of conviction, rather than a singular way of taking something to be the case that accommodates varying degrees of confidence.<sup><span id="n6-11"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-11">11</a></span></sup></p>
			<div><a id="part3"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.3 </span>Becoming Unhinged</p>
			<p class="TxNI">I have already noted a convergence between Husserl and Jaspers, on the view that the certainty of &#8220;belief&#8221; presupposes a different kind of confidence or certainty. This same position can be arrived at through a consideration of themes in Ludwig Wittgenstein&#8217;s later writings. And I think it is instructive to see how different philosophical routes lead us to the same place, to the conclusion that the attitude of belief depends on a nonpropositional form of confidence, trust, or habitual certainty that is inextricable from the social world. In <i>On Certainty</i>, Wittgenstein (1975) maintains that some of our beliefs are immune from doubt. Where this is so, we cannot be said to <i>know</i> that <i>p</i>, partly because <i>p</i> was never doubted in the first place and partly because we are unable to supply any grounds for the belief that <i>p</i>. Some things have to be taken for granted; they are not objects of inquiry but &#8220;hinges&#8221; on which our inquiries hang: &#8220;We just <i>can&#8217;t</i> investigate everything, and for that reason we are forced to rest content with assumption. If I want the door to turn, the hinges must stay put&#8221; (OC, 343).<sup><span id="n6-12"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-12">12</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Campbell (2001) seeks to account for certain delusions by appealing to the view that our various beliefs rest on an unquestioned bedrock of &#8220;hinge&#8221; or &#8220;framework&#8221; propositions. In short, if delusions are themselves hinge propositions, it is no surprise that they are recalcitrant to change and largely insulated from rational debate. I agree that Wittgenstein&#8217;s discussion is highly relevant here. However, it is a mistake to construe hinge propositions as beliefs, of the kind that involve adopting a linguistically expressible attitude toward a specific content. Furthermore, certain kinds of delusion do not consist of or depend on something being accepted in the form of a hinge. They instead involve what we might call a <i>loosening of the hinges</i>.</p>
			<p class="Tx">According to some interpreters, Wittgenstein takes hinges to consist not of unwavering propositional beliefs, but instead something practical, habitual, and nonpropositional, something that such beliefs presuppose (e.g., Moyal-Sharrock 2005; Rhodes and Gipps 2008). I agree with that interpretation.<sup><span id="n6-13"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-13">13</a></span></sup> Now, Wittgenstein gestures at different kinds of certainty in the text and it is not always clear quite what he has in mind. Consider the following: &#8220;If you tried to doubt everything you would not get as far as doubting anything. The game of doubting itself presupposes certainty&#8221; (OC, 115). There are various ways of interpreting this, some or all of which may be at play at one or another stage in his thinking. The weakest claim is that particular doubts are always expressed against wider backgrounds of acceptance. So, where one doubts that <i>p</i>, one also accepts that <i>q</i>. In a different situation, one could just as easily doubt that <i>q</i>; but this would be a situation where one does not doubt that <i>p</i>, at least not in the same way. For example, it would be peculiar, and perhaps even incoherent, to state &#8220;I do not know whether B will marry C or D, and I do not know whether B exists,&#8221; as the first doubt takes for granted the existence of B. All the same, this does not prohibit doubting the existence of B in another scenario; it is merely that some doubts are contextually incompatible.</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, Wittgenstein is also concerned with a more fundamental kind of certainty. Some propositions are not just immune from doubt in some situations or relative to a subset of our practices. They are taken for granted in all situations, perhaps by an individual, by a culture, during a historical period, or even by all typical human beings in all cultures at all times. Even if this is accepted, it remains tempting to think in terms of deeply entrenched propositions that are immune from doubt thanks to some combination of the following: (a) we do not ordinarily make them explicit and subject them to critical scrutiny; (b) some or all of our other beliefs depend on them; and (c) we are unable to supply grounds for them, at least not in the way we do for contestable empirical claims. But, whatever the case, Wittgenstein is clearly addressing something else as well. It is something he explicitly struggles to articulate, not just because it is more usually accepted without question but also because it is different in kind from propositional belief. At one point, he remarks, &#8220;I am inclined to believe that not everything that has the form of an empirical proposition <i>is</i> one&#8221; (OC, 308). One might interpret this as &#8220;Some propositions that look like empirical propositions are in fact propositions of a different kind.&#8221; Alternatively, it could be read as &#8220;Some things that look like empirical propositions are not propositions at all.&#8221; I suggest the latter reading.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Wittgenstein later refers to a &#8220;comfortable&#8221; certainty, which he describes as a &#8220;form of life,&#8221; only to concede, immediately afterward, that this is &#8220;very badly expressed and probably badly thought as well&#8221; (OC, 357, 358). Even if it is badly expressed, the reference to a form of life indicates that what he has in mind is nonpropositional in nature. Whatever &#8220;forms of life&#8221; might be, they are not propositions. Rather, the emphasis is on a background of shared linguistic and nonlinguistic practice that meaningful propositions presuppose. For instance, in his earlier <i>Philosophical Investigations</i> (Wittgenstein 1953), he writes: &#8220;the <i>speaking</i> of language is part of an activity, or of a form of life&#8221; (PI, 23). At the very least, it seems that such certainties are not usually explicitly <i>endorsed</i>. Instead, their acceptance is constituted by and expressed in practice, in a way that somehow lends itself to linguistic articulation in terms of the belief that <i>p</i> or <i>q</i>. And articulation or expression is not the same as translation; neither the attitude nor the content are wholly preserved or replicated in propositional form. But this is still not terribly exciting. It is not clear why the habitual acceptance of something cannot be identified and articulated (to at least some extent) by spoken language, and subsequently challenged. After all, many largely or wholly nonlinguistic practices remain normatively accountable. What is accepted in a habitual way can be made explicit, held accountable to whatever norm, criticized, and finally revised, perhaps via retraining.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, it can be added that some practical acceptances are both deeply entrenched and indispensable to wider contexts of linguistic and nonlinguistic activity. However, even if this is sometimes what Wittgenstein has in mind, I think he is also struggling to articulate something else, something importantly different. Wittgenstein writes that comfortable certainty is to be conceived of as &#8220;something that lies beyond being justified or unjustified; as it were, as something animal&#8221; (OC, 359). He adds that, in grappling with it, he wishes to construe the human being as &#8220;an animal,&#8221; a &#8220;primitive being to which one grants instinct but not ratiocination,&#8221; a &#8220;creature in a primitive state&#8221; (OC, 475). This &#8220;animal certainty,&#8221; I suggest, is most plausibly identified with the kind of habitual, confident immersion in the world described by Husserl. While Husserl offers a clearer and more detailed analysis of its structure, in terms of anticipation and fulfillment, Wittgenstein places more emphasis on its social embeddedness. In both cases, though, what we have is not a practical or theoretical attitude toward something or the content of such an attitude but a condition for the possession of any kind of intentional state, something that our grasp of the distinction between <i>what is</i> and <i>what is not</i> rests on.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What is needed is a reading of &#8220;the game of doubting itself presupposes certainty&#8221; that emphasizes the <i>form</i> of doubt, rather than the <i>content</i> of doubt. The claim is not merely that a doubt with a given content makes sense only in a particular linguistic or nonlinguistic situation, or that all doubts happen to operate within one or another stable context of acceptance. In addition, the form of doubt, the intelligibility of the attitude of doubt, depends on grasping something as potentially anomalous <i>relative to</i> a wider backdrop of acceptance. This grasping is first and foremost habitual and practical rather than propositional. By implication, the same applies to negation, as well as to affirmation in the face of potential negation. Hence certainty, in the relevant sense, is not a matter of taking something to be the case. It is presupposed by the modalities of belief: by doubt, negation, and affirmation. And this is why it does not consist of &#8220;belief,&#8221; at least not in the way that a propositional or even nonpropositional attitude might be thought of as a belief.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Wittgenstein emphasizes that certainty of this kind is inseparable from immersion in a <i>shared</i> world. He states that &#8220;in order to make a mistake, a man must already judge in conformity with mankind&#8221; (OC, 156), and also describes our &#8220;picture of the world&#8221; as an &#8220;inherited background against which I distinguish between true and false&#8221; (OC, 94). Again, I do not think such remarks are to be interpreted merely in terms of conformity with a wider body of knowledge or a contingent set of linguistic and nonlinguistic practices. Also at play is the recognition that uncertainties, doubts, and errors make sense only against a backdrop of shared certainty. Furthermore, it is only in the face of potential doubt or uncertainty that we take something to be the case in a propositional way. So, if you point to any particular belief or, indeed, any combination of beliefs, you will not capture the underlying sense of certainty. It consists instead in a kind of habitual, <i>animal</i> confidence.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This reading is consistent with some of Wittgenstein&#8217;s remarks on certainty in <i>Philosophical Investigations</i>. There, he appears to explicitly identify certainty with a kind of affective anticipation:</p>
			<p class="E">The belief that fire will burn me is of the same kind as the fear that it will burn me.</p>
			<p class="E">I shall get burnt if I put my hand in the fire: that is certainty. That is to say: here we see the meaning of certainty. (What it amounts to, not just the meaning of the word &#8220;certainty.&#8221;) (PI, 473, 474)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">One might object that this kind of expectation is itself propositional in nature. However, other passages make clear that Wittgenstein is concerned with something practical, affective, and habitual: &#8220;What kind of reason have I to assume that my finger will feel a resistance when it touches the table?&#8221; (PI, 478). There is no <i>reason</i>, and there is no <i>assumption</i>; such expectations instead form part of a wider, cohesive pattern of anticipation. As Wittgenstein acknowledges, &#8220;An expectation is imbedded in a situation, from which it arises&#8221; (PI, 581). An expectation, whether it takes the form of unproblematic acceptance or doubt, makes sense only relative to a wider situation in which it is embedded; confident expectations are consistent with that situation, while doubts are potential deviations. So, whenever we take something to be the case or otherwise, our doing so always rests on another kind of certainty, a coherent system of confident, habitual anticipation. This is what it is to <i>have certainty</i>, to be able to take something or other as certain.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Moyal-Sharrock (2005, 66) suggests that hinges can also be thought of in terms of &#8220;blind trust,&#8221; an unthinking reliance on things that serves as our &#8220;default attitude.&#8221; Wittgenstein mentions trust at various points in the text. For example:</p>
			<p class="E">How does someone judge which is his right and which his left hand? How do I know that my judgment will agree with someone else&#8217;s? How do I know that this colour is blue? If I don&#8217;t trust <i>myself</i> here, why should I trust anyone else&#8217;s judgment? Is there a why? Must I not begin to trust somewhere? That is to say: somewhere I must begin with not-doubting; and that is not, so to speak, hasty but excusable: it is part of judging. (OC, 150)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Again, references to trust are consistent with an emphasis on anticipatory style. To start trusting &#8220;somewhere&#8221; is not to accept some content of experience or thought as certain. It is only because we habitually trust and are already immersed in &#8220;comfortable certainty&#8221; that a distinction between being the case and not being the case is intelligible to us. We must inhabit the world in a certain way, have a certain style of anticipation, for &#8220;judging&#8221; to be possible at all; that is &#8220;part of&#8221; what it is to judge. One might ask whether I first trust myself in this way, first trust the world, or first trust other people. In chapter 5, I argued that trust in others has a certain priority. It is through this that trust in ourselves, our activities, our abilities, and the world as a whole is sustained and restored. With this in mind, it is informative to consider the notion of a &#8220;moral hinge.&#8221; In <i>On Certainty</i>, Wittgenstein does not explicitly address moral beliefs. Nevertheless, it has been argued that some of our moral beliefs behave in a way that is consistent with his discussion. Pleasants (2008, 2009) makes a case for &#8220;basic moral certainties,&#8221; such as &#8220;killing people is wrong.&#8221; His argument involves showing how, when philosophers attempt to explicitly defend claims like this, their attempts come across as empty, absurd, amusing, or offensive. We cannot supply grounds for knowledge claims here, as the relevant propositions do not operate as potential objects of doubt to begin with, other than in a few exceptional circumstances. The wrongness of killing is rooted in our practices, in such a way that it is ordinarily beyond question:</p>
			<p class="E">Because of the role and significance that death, and hence killing, has for us as embodied, finite, vulnerable beings, the statements &#8220;death is bad&#8221; and &#8220;murder is wrong&#8221; are not moral propositions but expressions of basic moral certainty. Just as no-one in non-extraordinary circumstances is in a position to say <i>how</i> they know that they have hands, so no-one can say what the badness of death and wrongness of killing consist in. (Pleasants 2009, 677)</p>
			<p class="Tx">The concept of a moral hinge can be related to traumatic experiences, where a person faces the task of describing the loss of something that is more usually taken for granted, even by the language she has to rely on in order to convey her loss (Kusch forthcoming). Again, there is a distinction to be drawn between convictions with specific contents, however deep-rooted they may be, and something more pervasive, which is not propositional at all. Specific moral convictions, however entrenched, are distinct from an overarching way of relating to other people. And something that looks like a proposition could turn out to be an expression of the latter. For instance, &#8220;Other people will not harm me,&#8221; &#8220;The world is generally safe,&#8221; &#8220;Others will help me when I am suffering,&#8221; and so forth, can be expressive of the global style of anticipation. Propositions such as &#8220;Killing people is wrong&#8221; are at least partly attributable to it as well (although more needs to be said about the relationship between habitual expectation and normative judgment). Assuming one&#8217;s experiences and thoughts arise within a world where reciprocal trust is taken as given, it does not even make sense to consider whether killing other people might be an appropriate way to act. For that reason, a clear distinction should not be made between moral hinges and hinges more generally. A style of interpersonal relatedness, which some moral judgments can also express, is inextricable from having a world at all, from being rooted in a realm where some things are and some things are not.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Our most confident beliefs therefore turn out to be different in kind from a confidence that makes belief possible. I concede that not all of Wittgenstein&#8217;s examples of hinges express the latter. &#8220;The Earth exists&#8221; and &#8220;There are physical objects&#8221; are good candidates. These are arguably inextricable from the sense of being embedded in a shared world. But propositions such as &#8220;The Earth is round&#8221; and &#8220;I have a brain&#8221; fall into a different category. Whereas the former are expressions of something that is inextricable from the style of experience, from the possibility of perceiving and believing, the latter look more like deeply entrenched belief contents. Even so, the erosion of ingrained beliefs can affect experiential style. For example, if I somehow discovered that the Earth was only thirty years old and that I had been cloned from a Martian, this would have such a profound and disruptive effect on my habitual confidence that it might well precipitate a shift in the overall form of anticipation, in the structure of intentionality. Thus, while only some &#8220;hinge propositions&#8221; are integral to the modal structure of experience, those that are not remain intimately associated with it. This applies especially to the interpersonal sphere. Even when our most entrenched beliefs and expectations are challenged, we can turn to others for reassurance and recalibration. But suppose the challenge to belief were such as to compromise precisely those interpersonal relations that would otherwise aid restoration of habitual confidence. Here, in particular, we would expect an erosion of entrenched beliefs, brought about by revelations or deeds, to impact on the overall structure of experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Wittgenstein remarks, at one point, that &#8220;the difficulty is to realize the groundlessness of our believing&#8221; (OC, 166). On one reading, this concerns belief content: we inevitably take some things as given without being able to supply any further grounds for them. However, there is another way of understanding the remark. There is a sense in which the attitude of believing is itself groundless. Once we have acknowledged a kind of confidence that constitutes our sense of what it is to be the case or otherwise, there is nothing more we can ask for, no further bedrock buried beneath a fragile system of habitual expectations. So, when the default pattern of anticipation and fulfillment breaks down, we face a peculiar kind of disturbance. It is not just that something is missing, lacking, or otherwise different. An erosion of the modal structure of intentionality is also an erosion of perspective, of being open to a world where some things are and others are not, where the imaginary is distinct from the real. This amounts to a profound experience of groundlessness and helplessness. We become, if you like, unhinged from the consensus world, and any certainty that remains is different in kind.</p>
			<div><a id="part4"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.4 </span>The Anticipation of Memory</p>
			<p class="TxNI">One might worry that an emphasis on the anticipatory structure of experience does not accommodate experiences of remembering, which concern what is past rather than what is to come. However, the content of a memory is to be distinguished from a sense of that content <i>as</i> remembered. And the experience of remembering something does, I suggest, involve a characteristic pattern of content-anticipation that contributes to a sense of it <i>as</i> past. </p>
			<p class="Tx">To illustrate this, let us consider post-traumatic flashbacks, which are said to involve perception-like experiences of unpleasant past events. Flashbacks involve autobiographical memories that are not exclusively propositional in nature, by which I mean that one remembers the event rather than just remembering <i>that</i> the event happened. These memories are also self-involving. Remembering what happened in a television program that you watched some time ago is not self-involving in the relevant way, while remembering something that happened to you is. When we remember life events, we do not experience the coming of those events but we do anticipate the coming of our memories, in a way that differs from the anticipation of perceived events, imagined events, and our own inner speech. Often, we remember something that relates, in however tenuous a manner, to what we are currently thinking, doing, attempting to do, or actively trying to recall. In addition, remembered events tend to be experienced as significant, as mattering to us in one or another way. How they matter to us is a reflection of our current commitments, concerns, projects, and values&#8212;what we care about and why. A remembered event might involve something that is to be further developed, compensated for, or left behind. Hence the autobiographical past is constantly renegotiated, reinterpreted, in light of where we are heading:</p>
			<p class="E">The future is the site of both anticipation and the unexpected, planning and the changing of plans. This predominant orientation toward a changing future also means a fluid or unfixed past, because the past is continually being reassessed as one moves into the future. (Havens 1986, 21)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Where the possibility of moving forward in a purposive, progressive, structured fashion is compromised, so is that of contextualizing, interpreting, and reinterpreting past events in light of current concerns. As we saw in chapter 5, traumatic events can bring about a shift in the anticipatory structure of experience&#8212;a loss of trust, confidence, or certainty. Projects collapse; other people appear threatening and unpredictable; and there is no prospect of relating to others in such a way as to open up new possibilities and reinterpret one&#8217;s predicament. So one cannot <i>move on</i>. We can thus begin to see why traumatic memories might be experienced as vivid, intrusive flashbacks, why they are relived more so than recalled (e.g., Hunt 2010, 70). They are not integrated into a coherent, dynamic, and meaningful life story. So the traumatized person does not first recall another, related part of the story and, in the process, anticipate their coming. They are triggered or cued in a different manner. Difficulties in voluntarily recalling traumatic memories may be similarly attributable to this lack of contextualization. Other autobiographical memories would not be affected in quite the same way. Those that were formed before the traumatic event would still be integrated into a life, albeit a life that now seems strangely distant. Granted, if one feels dislodged from the social world and disengaged from goal-directed projects, memories of events that occurred after the trauma will lack cohesion as well. However, it can be added that traumatic memories are not altogether bereft of anticipation; their coming is anticipated with anxiety and dread, which alienates one from them still further. So, what we have is the anxious anticipation of something unpleasant that is not contextually embedded in the way that memories more usually are. Like the inner speech VHs addressed in chapter 4, traumatic memories are thus experienced in a perception-like way, as something unpleasant that a person might seek to avoid but is forced to confront. This does not imply that a traumatic memory endures as a wholly uncorrupted record of how the event was experienced at the time. The point is that it is not anticipated in any of the <i>ways</i> that memory contents more usually are.<sup><span id="n6-14"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-14">14</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">The effects of trauma can also include a more general erosion of the modal structure of intentionality. As discussed in section 6.1, perceptual experience may become permeated by passivity and detachment, lack of cohesion, and varying degrees of removal from the consensus world. With this, a sense of memories as distinct from perceptions will already be diminished, rendering the person more susceptible to pronounced, episodic disruptions, in the guise of distressing, decontextualized contents. An account along these lines may well capture some internal VH experiences. Michie et al. (2005) suggest that VHs sometimes occur because of a failure to inhibit irrelevant memories. If that is right, then the terms &#8220;flashback&#8221; and &#8220;verbal hallucination&#8221; could refer to a common experience. Such an account would not accommodate all traumatic memories, given that their contents need not be predominantly verbal. Even so, it is consistent with cases where distressing memories centrally involve speech, perhaps that of an abuser.</p>
			<p class="Tx">There are potential implications here for our understanding of dissociation in trauma. The term &#8220;dissociation&#8221; is used to refer to various different kinds of experience. These include experiences of <i>derealization</i>, involving a sense of detachment from the world and from one&#8217;s body. Loss of trust, as described in chapter 5, is consistent with something along these lines. In brief, the person feels disconnected from other people and from the whole a world&#8212;she is not quite <i>there</i>. And, as she lacks certain feelings of anticipation and associated bodily dispositions, her body feels different too. Traumatic memories, as I have described them, involve another kind of dissociation; they are not integrated into a person&#8217;s life and, owing to their lack of context, she may also have trouble accessing them voluntarily. Inner speech VHs, as described in chapter 4, can similarly be conceived of in terms of dissociation: anxious anticipation of inner speech content involves an unusual degree of detachment from one&#8217;s own self-directed emotions, which are then confronted in the guise of &#8220;voices.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">On the other hand, an experience of post-traumatic dissociation could also involve preserving some degree of trust by not confronting the relevant events, by actively resisting their integration into one&#8217;s life and, in the extreme case, striving to go about one&#8217;s business as though nothing has happened. The extent to which a person tries (successfully or otherwise) to avoid contemplating past events, and the extent to which she succeeds in retaining a sense of trust, confidence, or certainty, are both likely to vary considerably. So, while some experiences of &#8220;dissociation&#8221; are largely attributable to disturbances of the modal structure of intentionality, others may owe more to the attempt to sustain that structure (where this attempt could involve a range of different strategies, into which a person has varying degrees of insight). Both ends of the spectrum are consistent with memories that are decontextualized, anxiously anticipated, and consequently experienced as variably perception-like.<sup><span id="n6-15"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-15">15</a></span></sup> This complicates discussion of the relationship between dissociation and &#8220;reality discrimination&#8221; (e.g., Varese, Barkus, and Bentall 2012), given that the modal structure of intentionality, and thus the sense of reality, will not always be affected in the same way or to the same extent. Thus, as this brief consideration of traumatic memory further illustrates, an emphasis on the modal structure of intentionality can assist in illuminating various kinds of anomalous experience, while also pointing to more specific analyses that distinguish them from each other.</p>
			<div><a id="part5"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.5 </span>Intentionality and Time</p>
			<p class="TxNI">I have argued that the sense of being in a given type of intentional state depends, to a significant extent, on the temporal structure of experience and, more specifically, on patterns of anticipation and fulfilment. Chapters 3 and 4 addressed content-specific, episodic disturbances in the structure of intentionality, which can be understood in terms of changes in anticipatory style. Chapter 5 added that these experiences usually occur against a backdrop of wider-ranging phenomenological disturbances. So it is not merely that the anticipatory structure characteristic of intentional state <i>x</i> with content <i>p</i> is disrupted such that <i>p</i> is experienced as the content of a <i>y</i>-like intentional state. While experiences of this kind could in principle occur in isolation, they are more usually symptomatic of nonlocalized changes in the modal structure of intentionality. But how, exactly, do the two relate to each other? Drawing the various strands of discussion together, the overall position arrived at is as follows:</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The sense of being in a given intentional state depends largely on its having a distinctive temporal profile. This includes a sense of whether and how the relevant temporal profile differs from that of other intentional state types. An appreciation of such differences is inseparable from the global style of anticipation. Perceptual experience ordinarily has a cohesive, tightly structured anticipation-fulfillment profile, on which the attitude of belief is also parasitic. Changes in the overall style of perceptual experience therefore imply changes in <i>how</i> one believes; things are no longer taken to be the case or not the case in quite the same way. The temporal profiles of imagining and remembering are experienced <i>as</i> departures from that of perceptual experience, insofar as they involve lesser degrees of structure. A change in how a person relates to others in general can erode the structure of perceptual experience by uprooting it from the consensus world, generating widespread unpredictability, dysregulating affective anticipation, and insulating her from interpersonal processes that more usually sustain or repair experiential cohesion. In so doing, it alters the modal structure of intentionality, lessening the gulf between temporal profiles. For instance, perceptual experiences that lack cohesion, have no bearing on life projects, are isolated from the public world, and do not solicit activities are, in these respects, similar in structure to certain imaginings. Consequently, the person is more susceptible to modally ambiguous experiences.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I think this position is consistent with where Husserl was heading in some of his later work. More generally, though, very little has been written on anticipation-fulfillment profiles and how they contribute to the sense of being in one or another type of intentional state. An exception is Straus (1958, 162&#8211;164), who explicitly states that some experiences, including certain hallucinations, &#8220;<span class="I">originate in the medium of distorted modalities</span>.&#8221; Different kinds of intentionality, he observes, have different temporal structures. For instance, &#8220;In my recollection I can transport myself to past decades; in waking sensory experience I can only advance from present to present into the future.&#8221; When it comes to imagination, &#8220;I can cross the ocean in one leap; in sensory experience there are no leaps.&#8221; So a principal difference between perceptual experience of one&#8217;s surroundings and remembering or imagining is that perception involves a distinctive, more tightly structured pattern of anticipation and fulfillment: &#8220;Waking experience has its own peculiar order and precision. Every moment is directed to the following one in a meaningful anticipation. &#8230; In the continuum of anticipation we grasp our wakefulness.&#8221; It is not <i>because</i> one already experiences oneself as perceiving rather than imagining that certain things are anticipated rather than others, and that certain things are taken to be anomalous that would be unproblematic if imagined. Rather, these anticipatory patterns constitute the sense of one&#8217;s intentional state. </p>
			<p class="Tx">Merleau-Ponty (1945/2012, 338) makes some complementary observations regarding the experience of imagining:</p>
			<p class="E">In imagination, I have hardly formed the intention to see before I already believe that I have seen. Imagination is without depth; it does not respond to our attempts to vary our points of view; it does not lend itself to our observation. We are never geared into the imagination. In each perception, however, it is the matter itself that takes on sense and form. &#8230; The real stands out against our fictions because in the real sense surrounds matter and penetrates it deeply. &#8230; The real lends itself to an infinite exploration, it is inexhaustible.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Thus, as well as having more consistency than imagination, perception differs in the range of possibilities that are anticipated and the ways in which they unfold. When you imagine something, the imagined entity does not call out for further exploration in the way that a perceived entity does. It is not experienced in terms of various different perceptual and practical possibilities that might be actualized. There is also a sense in which the contents of our imaginings are more fully present: there is less indeterminacy, less that calls out for exploration. Yet it is precisely because of this that an entity is experienced as imagined rather than as perceptually present. Remembered situations also unfold in ways that are removed from the cohesive, consistent anticipation-fulfillment structure of perceptual experience; one can dart from one time and place to another. On the other hand, memories are constrained in ways that imaginings are not. For instance, a specific event, as remembered, cannot be moved from one past situation to another; it cannot be swiftly erased and replaced with an alternative scenario; and it retains some degree of consistency with other remembered events. Memories also implicate other people in ways that imaginings do not. A remembered event can be something <i>we</i> saw or did; something that others could in principle corroborate; and something that had or will have repercussions for others. More generally, memory contents are constrained by their integration into a cohesive, consensus world, in a way that the contents of counterfactual imaginings are not. Hence the anticipatory styles of imagining and remembering involve distinctive privations of what I have called &#8220;global anticipatory style.&#8221; As they run alongside perceptual experience, they are experienced as departures from it, as temporal patterns that are disengaged in different ways from one&#8217;s rootedness in the present.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Alfred Schutz (1945) conceives of the modal structure of intentionality in what I take to be a compatible way. He addresses the view of William James (1889) that, during the course of our daily lives, we inhabit a number of different &#8220;sub-universes,&#8221; such as the world of perception, the world of science, and the world of the supernatural. For James, which of these we regard as authoritative, as our ultimate reality, is not the outcome of reasoning or evidence, but a reflection of whether and how it relates to our lives, to what we care about. It is not always clear whether these different sub-universes are to be thought of in terms of different kinds of content, different kinds of intentionality, or a combination of the two. However, Schutz&#8217;s development of the view suggests the latter. For instance, when he contrasts the world of science with the worlds of dreaming and imagination, it is clear that the difference is not just one of content but also one of form; different kinds of intentionality are at work. Schutz prefers the term &#8220;province of meaning&#8221; to &#8220;sub-universe,&#8221; and maintains that the province of everyday experience has priority over others. It is &#8220;marked out as ultimate or paramount reality,&#8221; in virtue of the &#8220;unity and congruity of the world.&#8221; Other meaning-provinces are all <i>derived</i> from the world of everyday, practical, social life by means of selective abstraction: &#8220;The world of working in daily life is the archetype of our experience of reality. All other provinces of meaning may be considered as its modifications&#8221; (Schutz 1945, 552&#8211;554).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Interestingly, Karlsson (2008, 370) explicitly relates Schutz&#8217;s discussion to VH experiences, observing how participants in a study &#8220;described how the voice hearing was enacted in another reality, or in an enclave of the ordinary life that the participants spiritually visited.&#8221; It can be added that the difference between consensus reality and this other &#8220;reality&#8221; should not be construed solely in terms of their respective experiential contents. Consider Schutz&#8217;s inclusion of the imaginary as a province of meaning. This inclusion might at first seem misplaced: when we imagine something, we retain a sense of our imaginings <i>as</i> imaginings that arise in the context of a world that we continue to take as given. So an isolated imagining does not constitute a cohesive sub-universe or meaning-province in its own right. However, this does not apply so obviously to extended imaginative exercises, where we take things to be the case and act accordingly within wider-ranging make-believe realms. For Schutz, these realms are distinguishable from the world of everyday life in virtue of their relative lack of structure. They are not constrained by objects that resist us or by projects that we are committed to, and are liberated from the regimented spatiotemporal structure of the consensus world:</p>
			<p class="E">Living in one of the many worlds of phantasy we have no longer to master the outer world and to overcome the resistance of its objects. We are free from the pragmatic motive which governs our natural attitude toward the world of daily life, free also from the bondage of &#8220;interobjective&#8221; space and intersubjective standard time. (1945, 555)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">So it is not just a matter of taking something to be the case in one meaning-province that is not taken to be the case in another. The world of imagination involves a kind of abstraction from the everyday; it is prereflectively experienced <i>as</i> a privation, as a withdrawal from something. Our sense of it <i>as an imagined world</i> therefore continues to presuppose our habitual immersion in a consensus world.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This is not to suggest that different kinds of intentionality unfold in parallel, in complete isolation from each other. As I contemplate what I will write next, perceive the computer screen, and imagine seeing my children this evening, these aspects of experience are co-present and easily distinguishable from each other. Yet they also interact in various ways, and certain kinds of interaction are anticipated. My imagining might take my writing in a new direction; something I remember might prompt me to do something else; and an incident in my environment might distract me from my task. Like the temporal profiles of the intentional states concerned, these interactions are structured in characteristic ways. I experience the influence of my imaginings on the flow of my thoughts as distinct from the influence of my memories. The way in which a type of intentional state interacts with others, such as the way in which a memory can drift into an imagining and vice versa, is also integral to its anticipation-fulfillment profile. The task of describing, in detail, all of the various temporal profiles and how they relate to each other amounts to a substantial philosophical and interdisciplinary endeavor. It is not my intention to complete the project here. Instead, my aim is to develop a way of thinking about human experience that opens up the possibility of pursuing a wider-ranging project of this nature. I am also inclined to think that the cohesive modal structure of intentionality (which, as pointed out in chapter 5, is inextricable from the feeling body) is both necessary and sufficient for &#8220;minimal self,&#8221; for the having of a singular, cohesive perspective. Perhaps there is more to minimal-self experience than this. But, if so, we are owed a clear account of what the additional ingredients consist of, rather than appeals to a more primitive experience of subjectivity about which no more can be said.</p>
			<p class="Tx">If the world of everyday life were lacking in structure, in ways described earlier in this chapter, the sense of an imaginary world as a privation of it, and as unfolding alongside it in a different way, would no longer be so clear. Hence VHs can be thought of not just as localized modal disruptions that are imaginatively embellished, but&#8212;at least in some cases&#8212;as experiences that are embedded in wider-ranging imaginings, where those imaginings are no longer experienced in clear contrast with a consensus reality. The person enters a world in which her voices are experienced, akin to entering a dark wood where things might jump out at you. And again, the line between hallucination and delusion is unclear. Adrift from consensus reality, she does not <i>believe</i> in quite the same way anymore. So a clear-cut distinction cannot be drawn between cases where B experiences <i>p</i> but does not believe that <i>p</i>, and cases where B experiences <i>p</i> and further adopts the belief that <i>p</i>. Susceptibility to becoming lost in imaginary worlds, like susceptibility to more localized VH experiences, is attributable to changes in global anticipatory style, which weaken the experienced boundaries between &#8220;meaning provinces,&#8221; as well as between more specifically focused intentional states. Both localized and wider-ranging disruptions of intentionality can be short-lived or more enduring. A &#8220;voice&#8221; could last for seconds or for longer periods, and a person could also become immersed in an imaginary realm for varying periods of time. Even global changes in the structure of intentionality are by no means consistent over long periods of time, and may be more pronounced in some social situations than others. Consider this observation, by Aggernaes (1972, 236):</p>
			<p class="E">The present author found during seven days and nights of living among chronic schizophrenic patients &#8230; that, as to most practical matters and a lot of interpersonal matters, they actually functioned without conspicuous defects in their evaluation of reality.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Perhaps these patients were engaged in a kind of double-bookkeeping, and their anomalous experiences ran alongside their abilities to engage in practical tasks without interfering. But it could just as well be that localized and more pervasive disturbances of intentionality were lessened by sustained exposure to a certain kind of social environment.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Alterations of the modal structure of intentionality differ in three respects from more mundane experiences of moving from one &#8220;world&#8221; to another. First of all, they involve forms of intentionality that do not respect the usual distinction between what is and is not the case. Second, as the anticipation-fulfillment structure of perceptual experience has been disrupted, they are no longer experienced as unambiguous deviations from what is the case; they are no longer anchored to consensus reality. Third, those that are most likely to be associated with a psychiatric illness diagnosis involve losing some degree of control over when one enters into and withdraws from a &#8220;world.&#8221; This need not amount to a complete absence of control. A person might choose, at least to some extent, to detach himself from the consensus world and inhabit a different kind of reality.<sup><span id="n6-16"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-16">16</a></span></sup> On other occasions, though, the transition is involuntary. Consider the following account:</p>
			<p class="E">One time when I was forcibly taken to the hospital, the paramedics stayed with me while I waited and talked to me the whole 6 hours or so. I still heard it, but it felt like it had less power over me because I was aware of the outside world. They were conversing with me even though it was difficult, and kept that line open between me and the outside. But the moment I was transferred to the psychiatric emergency room I was locked in a tiny, bare room by myself for hours. I withdrew and the voice seemed like the only reality and got stronger because I had no distractions. (4)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Here, the authority and reality of the voice is enhanced by physical isolation from other people, something that exacerbates a lack of rootedness in the consensus world, a loss of &#8220;awareness&#8221; of the &#8220;outside world.&#8221; The &#8220;line&#8221; between &#8220;me and the outside&#8221; is lost, and without it, there is no longer a reality with which to contrast the voice, a world that it remains tethered to but, at the same time, distinct from.</p>
			<div><a id="part6"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.6 </span>Schizophrenia and Trauma</p>
			<p class="TxNI">My account of the relationship between interpersonal experience and the modal structure of intentionality is consistent with a substantial body of research on the links between trauma and psychosis. It also offers a way of interpreting these findings, showing not merely <i>that</i> the two are related but <i>how</i> they are. This section reviews some of the relevant evidence, after which it addresses the difficult question of how, if at all, modal disruptions that are symptomatic of trauma differ from those associated with schizophrenia diagnoses. In considering the relationships between trauma and psychosis, it is important to distinguish trauma during development, which interferes with the formation of trusting relations, from trauma in adulthood, which disrupts an already established interpersonal style. Various combinations of childhood and adulthood trauma should also be considered, which may be associated with a range of different trajectories and outcomes. Furthermore, how a given individual reacts to traumatic events is not just attributable to the nature of the events in question, combined with level of vulnerability. Outcomes also depend on the responses of other people, responses that are influenced, to varying degrees, by wider social and cultural structures.<sup><span id="n6-17"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-17">17</a></span></sup> While some responses may help to sustain a degree of trust and to repair trust, others may erode it still further. Hence patterns of causation are both complicated and highly variable.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, traumatic experiences are not always associated with psychosis or, more specifically, with schizophrenia diagnoses. Nevertheless, a substantial literature points to strong links between adverse experiences, particularly those involving other people, and subsequent diagnoses of psychotic illness. Contributing factors can include prejudicial discrimination, feelings of being socially disempowered, and lack of social support (Bentall and Fernyhough 2008). There are especially strong links between traumatic events in childhood and psychosis. Some studies indicate that around 85 percent of adults diagnosed with schizophrenia have suffered some form of childhood abuse, with sexual abuse in half these cases, figures that are far higher than the population base rate. Abuse and trauma in adulthood also increase vulnerability to psychosis, and some symptoms are most reliably associated with combinations of childhood and adulthood adversity. One might question the extent to which self-reports of abuse are reliable. However, where corroboration is possible, reliability is high (Read et al. 2003, 2005, 334; Larkin and Morrison 2006; Bentall and Varese 2013).</p>
			<p class="Tx">To go into a bit more detail, a study conducted by Kilcommons and Morrison (2005) involved thirty-two people diagnosed with psychosis. Ninety-four percent of them reported at least one traumatic lifetime event and 53 percent met the criteria for post-traumatic stress disorder. There were also correlations between severity of trauma and severity of symptoms, between physical abuse and positive symptoms, and between sexual abuse and hallucinations. Focusing specifically on the effects of childhood trauma, Varese et al. (2012, 669) conducted a meta-analysis of forty-one studies (all judged to be methodologically sound), which together point to the conclusion that &#8220;childhood adversity is substantially associated with an increased risk of psychosis.&#8221; Mueser et al. (2002, 126) report that rates of past trauma are high not just in schizophrenia but in severe psychiatric illness more generally, and that a history of physical and sexual abuse is specifically associated with &#8220;severe symptoms,&#8221; including &#8220;hallucinations and delusions, depression, suicidality, anxiety, hostility, interpersonal sensitivity, somatization, and dissociation.&#8221; The contents of hallucinations often resemble, in one or another way, the nature of traumatic events.<sup><span id="n6-18"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-18">18</a></span></sup> In a review of published studies, Morrison, Frame, and Larkin (2003) ask whether psychosis can cause post-traumatic stress disorder, whether trauma can cause psychosis, and whether psychosis and post-traumatic stress disorder both fall within a spectrum of responses to trauma. Their answer is that there is good evidence for all three. Although they acknowledge methodological problems with some studies, they conclude that, when all of the available evidence is taken into consideration, the association between trauma and psychosis is &#8220;undeniable.&#8221; There is also evidence pointing more specifically to a dose-response relationship between trauma and psychosis (Larkin and Read 2012).<sup><span id="n6-19"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-19">19</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Such findings do not imply a causal connection but are at least suggestive of one. How, though, might episodic and/or sustained traumatic experiences cause severe psychiatric illness, including symptoms such as VHs? It is plausible, I suggest, that diminution or loss of trust plays a central role. Rather than focusing solely on the <i>loss</i> of trust, as I did in chapter 5, we also need to consider scenarios where its formation is disrupted during development, such that a person never comes to relate to others in ways that many of us take for granted. To reiterate, &#8220;trust,&#8221; in this context, is not a matter of however many intentional states with propositional content. It is a habitual, affective style of anticipation, which shapes how a person experiences and relates to others and, by implication, to the world as a whole. This is consistent with the view that it first arises in infancy, as a set of interpersonal expectations that form through interactions with caregivers and later come to regulate encounters with other people in general. As discussed in chapter 2, a substantial body of literature on child development maintains that psychological development depends on types of patterned interaction between infants and caregivers, which cultivate habitual expectations concerning how interpersonal interactions unfold (Hobson 1993; 2002; Trevarthen 1993; Stern 1993; Reddy 2008). Judith Herman, in her influential study of trauma, similarly suggests that a primitive, nonlocalized form of trust originates in interpersonal relationships during infancy: &#8220;The sense of safety in the world, or basic trust, is acquired in earliest life in the relationship with the first caretaker.&#8221; She adds that, when this form of trust is lost, a &#8220;sense of connection&#8221; with other people is &#8220;shattered,&#8221; something that also amounts to the loss of a &#8220;basic sense of self&#8221; (Herman 1997, 51&#8211;54).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Among other things, a child&#8217;s sense of other people in general as unpredictable, uncaring, and potentially or actually hostile in one or another way would interfere with what Csibra and Gergely (2009, 148) call &#8220;natural pedagogy.&#8221; Human communication, they propose, is adapted to facilitate the reliable transmission of generalizable, cultural knowledge during development. The social transmission of knowledge depends on a system of expectations concerning how others will behave, which assume the &#8220;communicative cooperation and epistemic benevolence of the communicative partner.&#8221; Even in infancy, there are patterns of attention and expectation, along with interpretive biases, which render infants receptive to social signals such as ostensive gestures and dispose them to extract generalizable knowledge from these signals. Drawing on this work, Fonagy and Allison (2014) offer an account of the social-developmental process through which trust is formed and consider the cognitive effects of deviations from it. They suggest that the extent to which an infant comes to trust sources of communication is a reflection of attachment style:</p>
			<p class="E">Attachment security, rooted in a history of feeling recognized, appears to increase the likelihood of trust in a source of communication when it is reasonably credible. A secure attachment history also generates confidence in one&#8217;s own experience and belief and empowers one&#8217;s judgment. (2014, 374)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Secure attachments in early life foster a trust in others that later generalizes, disposing a person to accept credible communications. We also depend on this trust to instill confidence in our own judgments and abilities, given that self-confidence is reliant on feedback from others. So those who are unable to relate to others in the relevant way are left in a &#8220;state of interminable searching for validation of experience.&#8221; This is accompanied by &#8220;epistemic hypervigilance&#8221;; they are constantly on the lookout for potential dangers. Attachment insecurity in adulthood is also associated with epistemic biases, including intolerance of ambiguity, inflexible and dogmatic thinking, and a tendency to make judgments based on early and insufficient information (Fonagy and Allison 2014, 374).</p>
			<p class="Tx">It is easy to see why a wide-ranging lack of trust in other people might be associated with these biases, especially in the more extreme cases. As noted by Mueser et al. (2002, 129), &#8220;most violence in the lives of people with SMI (severe mental illness) is interpersonal in nature,&#8221; and so &#8220;<span class="I">avoidance of trauma-related stimuli</span> often extends to close relationships, leading to reduced social contacts and social isolation.&#8221; Where a person seeks to avoid other people in general, she will also avoid those types of interpersonal relation that more usually regulate experience and belief formation. To be more specific, as she does not regard others as credible sources of information, she will not be inclined to interact with them in ways that would otherwise serve to challenge her opinions, draw attention to alternative possibilities, and thus foster recognition of ambiguities. Intolerance of ambiguity is also partly symptomatic of how the world as a whole is experienced: an all-pervasive air of insecurity and unpleasant unpredictability precludes the comfortable acceptance of uncertainty and ambiguity.<sup><span id="n6-20"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-20">20</a></span></sup> As for dogmatic thinking, if a person is cut off from interpersonal processes that more usually shape the formation of belief, her thinking will be impervious to the influence of others. In addition, she will be more likely to arrive at judgments without consulting all the relevant information. Recognizing information as relevant involves respecting the testimonies of others, something that is inconsistent with a predicament where the interpersonal world is bereft of trusting relations. Furthermore, as argued earlier in this chapter, the effects of social estrangement are not limited to the contents of beliefs and how they are formed. The attitude of believing is itself affected, to varying degrees. A grasp of the distinction between what is and what is not the case depends, in part, on an appreciation of the contrast between what is embedded in a consensus world and what is not. To the extent that one is adrift from the consensus world, the sense of that contrast is diminished.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Descriptions of phenomenological changes that precede the onset of psychosis often point to something very similar. For example, Conrad (2012, 177) attempts to convey the early &#8220;trema&#8221; phase of schizophrenia through the analogy of walking through a dark forest:</p>
			<p class="E">Nothing is &#8220;taken for granted&#8221; anymore. Nothing is experienced as &#8220;natural.&#8221; In the darkness, precisely where one cannot see, there lurks something, behind the trees&#8212;one does not ask what it is that lurks. It remains undefined. It is the lurking itself. In that area between what is visible and what is &#8220;behind&#8221; the visible (e.g. the particular tree), what we call the background, where what we cannot grasp becomes uncanny. The background, from which the things we do grasp stand out, loses its neutrality.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In the case of traumatic experience, we might add that what lurks is, more specifically, a sense of <i>interpersonal</i> menace. Even so, this would also permeate one&#8217;s wider experience of the surrounding world, given that how things appear salient and significant depends on what is anticipated from other people. Therefore, it is not so clear whether or how the two types of experience differ from one another. The relationship between trauma, trust in other people, and the integrity of world experience is not a prominent theme in phenomenological psychopathology. However, it is at least explicit in the work of Wolfgang Blankenburg (1969/2001, 1971/2012). He describes how localized symptoms of schizophrenia, such as delusions and hallucinations, arise within wider-ranging disturbances of &#8220;commonsense&#8221; (a background of habitual confidence that our experiences, thoughts, and activities more usually presuppose). One of his patients describes the predicament as follows:</p>
			<p class="E">What is it that I am missing? It is something so small, but strange, it is something so important. It is impossible to live without it. I find that I no longer have footing in the world. I have lost a hold in regard to the simplest, everyday things. It seems that I lack a natural understanding for what is matter of course and obvious to others. (Blankenburg 1969/2001, 307)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Blankenburg makes clear that this &#8220;commonsense&#8221; is inextricable from how a person relates to others. It is &#8220;primarily related to an intersubjective world (<span class="I">mitweltbezogen</span>).&#8221; He adds that certain patterns of interpersonal development fail to nurture a &#8220;basic trust&#8221; on which commonsense is founded (1969/2001, 307, 310). As before, the kind of trust in question is not simply trust in persons A, B, and C to do <i>p</i>, <i>q</i>, and <i>r</i>. Global &#8220;loss of natural self-evidence&#8221; (<span class="I">Verlust der nat&#252;rlichen Selbstverst&#228;ndlichkeit</span>), of the kind that Blankenburg associates with schizophrenia, is inextricable from the <i>ability</i> to trust in anyone or anything (<span class="I">Vertrauenk&#246;nnen</span>). When a person is incapable of trusting relations with others, nothing is anticipated in an unproblematic fashion anymore; nothing is seamlessly integrated into a cohesive, confident pattern of anticipation and fulfilment. Consequently, nothing seems quite <i>there</i>, and nothing is taken to be <i>the case</i> in an unhesitant, unthinking way. This lack of confident, habitual acceptance extends to objects of perceptual experience and belief, the names and functions of familiar artifacts, and even word meanings.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Loss of natural self-evidence is closely related to the &#8220;hyperreflexivity&#8221; that Louis Sass takes to be central to self-disturbance in schizophrenia. To recap, hyperreflexivity is a largely involuntary attentiveness to aspects of experience and thought that are more usually unproblematic and inconspicuous. In Sass&#8217;s words, it is &#8220;a condition in which phenomena that would normally be inhabited, and in this sense experienced as part of the self, come instead to be objects of focal or objectifying awareness&#8221; (Sass 2003, 153). Where there is affectively charged uncertainty over the nature of <i>p</i> and what to expect from it, <i>p</i> will stand out in a way that it would not if it were encountered in a habitually confident manner. Loss of basic trust therefore involves wide-ranging alterations in what appears conspicuous and how. More usually, perception of our surroundings is shaped by confident patterns of anticipation and fulfillment. In addition, our everyday activities are regulated by the unreflective acceptance of shared norms and practices, which prescribe, with varying degrees of determinacy, what is to be done in a given situation. And the habitual confidence we have in our own beliefs is partly a reflection of their being affirmed by others and integrated into a consensus world. I have further argued that an unproblematic sense of being in intentional state <i>x</i> rather than <i>y</i> depends on a style of anticipation that is inseparable from basic trust. With the erosion of trust, ordinarily inconspicuous features of the environment become uncomfortably salient, as do one&#8217;s own activities, experiences, and thoughts. The resultant anticipatory style thus incorporates a form of hyperreflexivity.</p>
			<p class="Tx">My position is equally compatible with the insistence of the Hearing Voices Movement that &#8220;voices&#8221; and other troubling, anomalous experiences are essentially interpersonal, relational phenomena. The cumulative effects of a sequence of traumatic events can lead to increasing social isolation and, with it, a pervasive alteration in the sense of reality, sometimes resulting in a solitary, delusional world:</p>
			<p class="E">I lived in fear of the barrage of abuse that would follow any action of mine. I became increasingly anxious about mixing with others. I retreated into a solitary world as I endeavoured to make sense of what was happening to me. A complex and mystical explanation developed in which I believed that I had been chosen to receive a message from God. This message would relieve mankind of war and conflict and peace would prevail. (Romme at al. 2009, 130)<sup><span id="n6-21"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-21">21</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="TxNI">So it seems that traumatic loss of trust and the phenomenology of schizophrenia have much in common. But what, exactly, is the relationship between them? Drawing on Blankenburg and others (including Wittgenstein), Thomas Fuchs argues that loss of trust is integral to the experience of schizophrenia. He adds that there are looping effects, where erosion of trust impacts on social relations in such a way as to exacerbate loss of trust. And delusions, he suggests, are not &#8220;individual false beliefs&#8221; but instead &#8220;correspond to an intersubjective situation bereft of the basic trust and attunement to others that could help to restore a consensual understanding of the situation and to co-constitute a commonsensical reality&#8221; (2015, 208). Hence the relevant phenomenology is to be understood in relational rather than individual terms. Nevertheless, Fuchs continues to prioritize disturbances of minimal self over disturbances of intersubjectivity. Alteration of a &#8220;pre-reflective, embodied self,&#8221; he says, &#8220;must necessarily&#8221; affect social relations; disruption of habitual, bodily immersion in the world &#8220;will result in a fundamental alienation of intersubjectivity,&#8221; of a kind that is inextricable from loss of trust (2015, 199). So, in the case of schizophrenia, delusional mood comes first, eroding trust and compromising social relations. If that is right, while the effects of trauma might well be similar to certain effects of self-disturbance in schizophrenia, the two predicaments remain distinct: schizophrenic self-disturbance implies loss of trust, whereas loss of trust does not imply self-disturbance. In contrast, I have suggested that the relationship is one of mutual implication: changes in how one relates to people <i>are</i> changes in the modal structure of intentionality. As that structure is inseparable from minimal-self experience, they are also changes in minimal self. It is therefore plausible to suggest that causation goes in the other direction as well: loss of trust, brought about by events involving other people, can disrupt the structure of experience and weaken modal distinctions. And this, I maintain, is sufficient for the cultivation of certain kinds of hallucination and delusion.<sup><span id="n6-22"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-22">22</a></span></sup> So my position is consistent with the view that schizophrenia diagnoses are often associated with disturbances of minimal self (so long as we concede that minimal self&#8212;in humans, at least&#8212;depends constitutively on the interpersonal). However, the kind of self-disturbance I have described is not specific to schizophrenia.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Traumatic experiences are implicated in a range of different psychiatric conditions (e.g., Mueser et al. 2002). In fact, Read et al. (2005, 341) go so far as to suggest that whether a person receives a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder or a diagnosis of schizophrenia sometimes depends on whether or not the symptoms are interpreted in the light of distressing past events. Where one clinician sees a &#8220;hallucination,&#8221; another may see a &#8220;flashback.&#8221; Hence it is arguable that some cases of &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; are phenomenologically (and more generally) indistinguishable from some cases of &#8220;post-traumatic stress disorder&#8221;: &#8220;Psychotic symptoms in patients with posttraumatic stress and dissociative disorders pose continual diagnostic challenges. Many such patients present with disorganized thinking, impaired reality-testing, paranoid ideation, and hallucinations in multiple sensory modalities&#8221; (Allen, Coyne, and Console 1997, 327). Doubts have also been raised about the more general distinction between &#8220;neurosis&#8221; or affective disorder and &#8220;psychosis&#8221; (e.g., Freeman and Garety 2003). Of course, even if phenomenological differences are unclear or even nonexistent, one could still seek to draw a distinction on the basis of etiology. However, any such proposal would most likely involve substantial revision of current diagnostic practices, given that schizophrenia diagnoses are so often associated with troubled interpersonal histories and experiences of unpleasant events.</p>
			<p class="Tx">An alternative approach, advocated by Bentall (2003, 2009), among others, is to abandon syndrome-based classifications altogether and instead concentrate on explaining and treating individual symptoms, many of which are common to a number of different psychiatric diagnoses. On one reading, this runs contrary to what I have said so far. Experiences such as VH/TI are not phenomenologically isolable <i>symptoms</i>. They involve changes in the overall structure of intentionality, which are bound up with social relations and have numerous more specific effects on a person&#8217;s experiences, thoughts, and activities. However, Bentall (2003, 141&#8211;142) also suggests that what &#8220;psychiatrists describe as <i>symptoms </i>&#8230; might be better labelled as <i>complaints</i>,&#8221; where the term &#8220;complaint&#8221; refers to any experience or behavior that is &#8220;singled out as sometimes troublesome.&#8221; Given such a permissive conception, changes in the modal structure of experience, and in how a person relates to the social world as a whole, would equally count as complaints. Hence, if such an approach were adopted, my phenomenological analysis could still be applied, but without any regard for current diagnostic categories. The initial identification of a complaint could be followed up by a more discerning examination of the relevant experiences, one that is sensitive to the differences between anomalous experiential contents and local or global changes in the structure of intentionality.</p>
			<p class="Tx">On the other hand, the phenomenological distinctiveness of schizophrenia should not be dismissed prematurely. Parnas (2013, 222) warns us against this, raising the concern that attempts to &#8220;merge&#8221; affective disorder and schizophrenia amount to an &#8220;ongoing massive simplification of psychopathology.&#8221; I have argued that symptoms such as VHs are not specific to schizophrenia and are to be understood in terms of changes in the interpersonal sphere, the modal structure of experience, and thus the minimal self that are common to various psychiatric conditions. Even so, this does not rule out the possibility that certain more specific or more pronounced phenomenological changes are most often associated with schizophrenia diagnoses. DSM criteria and the like are far too cursory to draw reliable phenomenological (or more general) distinctions between schizophrenia spectrum disorders and diagnostically nonspecific losses of trust (see DSM-5, American Psychiatric Association 2013, 87&#8211;122). So, if &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; is to be identified with its DSM characterization, then we do not have a principled way of distinguishing the two predicaments. For instance, here is what DSM-5 has to say about VHs: &#8220;Auditory hallucinations are usually experienced as voices, whether familiar or unfamiliar, that are perceived as distinct from the individual&#8217;s own thoughts&#8221; (American Psychiatric Association, 2013, 87). It is added that experiences had while a person is falling asleep or waking up are to be discounted. This, of course, does not help us to distinguish between the many different phenomena encompassed by the label &#8220;VH,&#8221; let alone to reliably associate one or another of them with a specific diagnosis. Nevertheless, there remains the possibility of refining our understanding of the phenomenology, so as to apply the diagnosis in a more discerning way. As Sass (2014a, 5) remarks:</p>
			<p class="E">With all its flaws, the construct &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; does seem to indicate some subtle but underlying factor at the core of a psychiatric condition that is perhaps best conceived as a syndrome (and probably represents a final common pathway with diverse etiological origins).</p>
			<p class="TxNI">One characteristic that might distinguish schizophrenic self-disturbances (or, to put it more cautiously and accurately, a distinctive subset of self-experiences accommodated by most current applications of the diagnostic category &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221;) is a degree of salience dysregulation and temporal fragmentation that goes beyond what I have so far described. Consider again the delusional &#8220;mood&#8221; or &#8220;atmosphere&#8221; described by Jaspers (1963, 98), which involves one&#8217;s surroundings appearing salient in ways that are unfamiliar and strange. For example, a sofa that should present itself as something to sit on and offer comfort may appear oddly menacing, or significant in some otherwise incongruous manner. A wide-ranging and unstructured mismatch between entities and types of significance would amount to a more specific and also more profound kind of disturbance (Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 10).<sup><span id="n6-23"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-23">23</a></span></sup> As such, it would involve a different degree and/or kind of self-disorder. It remains the case that other kinds of phenomenological change are equally sufficient to bring about some of the associated symptoms, such as VHs consisting of modal disruptions. But, to speculate further, perhaps some <i>kinds</i> of localized modal disruption are more typical of schizophrenia. For instance, in chapter 4 I raised the possibility that disturbances of inner speech, memory, and imagination may be more often associated with one or another diagnosis.</p>
			<p class="Tx">A position along these lines would not commit us to the view that endogenous self-disorder precedes and causes social distress. It is just as plausible to suggest that wide-ranging salience dysregulation can come about through interpersonal processes, but as a <i>potential</i> outcome of the loss of trust rather than something <i>necessitated</i> by it. Loss of trust could estrange one from interpersonal regulatory processes and erode the structure of intentionality, in such a way as to render one vulnerable to further disruptions of salience and significance. However, it is likely that something along the lines of &#8220;delusional atmosphere&#8221; can also arise as a result of largely endogenous or at least impersonal processes. And nothing I have said is inconsistent with the view that both genetic and nongenetic biological causes play a role in some instances, where the latter might include malnutrition, infection, and injury in utero. Kilcommons and Morrison (2005, 352) hypothesize that there are two distinct pathways to psychosis: an endogenous route, involving a predominance of negative symptoms, and a trauma-driven route, where positive symptoms are more conspicuous.<sup><span id="n6-24"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-24">24</a></span></sup> Myin-Germeys and van Os (2007) also propose a specific &#8220;affective pathway&#8221; to psychosis, involving childhood trauma as a significant risk factor. They add that a vulnerability-stress model applies here, according to which some individuals are more vulnerable than others when faced with distressing events. I would add that vulnerability, in this context, should not be conceived of simply as a trait of the individual. The extent to which and the manner in which we come to depend on particular people and others in general to regulate experience, thought, and activity no doubt vary considerably. There are different ways of <i>entrusting the integrity of our experience to others</i>. Some of these will carry more risk than others. The effects of trauma will also depend, in part, on whether, when, and how others assist in the preservation and restoration of trust. So we should think of different responses to trauma not only in terms of comparative individual vulnerability and resilience to adverse events but also in terms of the diverse interpersonal regulative processes that both precede and follow traumatic events.</p>
			<p class="Tx">All sorts of in-between scenarios are possible too, which do not conform to a neat distinction between endogenous and trauma-driven psychoses. For instance, certain endogenous symptoms, combined with the stigma of potential or actual diagnosis, might generate social anxiety. This then further disrupts relations with others and erodes interpersonal trust (Birchwood et al. 2006). Ways in which others respond (which are socially and culturally mediated) could in turn exacerbate a loss of trust, leading to growing isolation from the social world and from interpersonal regulatory processes. For example, involuntary detention on mental health grounds can itself be traumatic. As Beveridge (1998, 116) observes, the &#8220;experience of being declared a suitable case for compulsory treatment often leads to a crisis of self-identity.&#8221;<sup><span id="n6-25"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-25">25</a></span></sup> More generally, a pervasive loss of trust is likely to interfere in various ways with treatment efforts, and it has been reported that a history of trauma impedes the ability to engage with and benefit from treatment (e.g., Bentall and Fernyhough 2008, 1013). Other factors that shape how experiential changes develop can include negative stereotypes about psychiatric illness and the &#8220;fear of going crazy&#8221; (Morrison, Frame, and Larkin 2003).<sup><span id="n6-26"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-26">26</a></span></sup> The dynamics are thus likely to be complicated and varied, with vicious cycles often developing. And all of this does not depend solely on how <i>individuals</i> behave and respond to each other. Wider social and cultural structures have a role to play too. For instance, they might incorporate quite different ways of responding to trauma, as well as different practices of affect regulation (Hinton and Kirmayer 2013).</p>
			<p class="Tx">In summary, everything I have said is compatible with the view that schizophrenia diagnoses are often associated with disruptions of minimal self. I also accept that a certain type of self-disturbance may be specific to schizophrenia. Having said that, a diagnosis of schizophrenia is equally compatible with other kinds of experience. Hence, if schizophrenia is to be identified with a distinctive type of self-disorder, current diagnostic practices will need to be revised. While I remain open to that possibility, the approach developed here can get along just as well without recourse to the category &#8220;schizophrenia.&#8221; Even if the category is to be retained, it remains the case that self-experience is equally interpersonal experience. There are insufficient grounds for postulating an additional, <i>even more minimal</i>, presocial sense of self in adult humans. Some self-disturbances are more profound than others, and some are qualitatively different from others, but the differences between them are not to be conceived of in terms of interpersonal and preinterpersonal selves.</p>
			<div><a id="part7"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.7 </span>Renee Revisited</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In the light of my discussion, it is instructive to revisit a classic text, one that is often quoted in support of the view that schizophrenia involves a distinctive kind of phenomenological disturbance: <i>Autobiography of a Schizophrenic Girl</i> (Sechehaye 1970).<sup><span id="n6-27"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-27">27</a></span></sup> Once we emphasize the themes of (a) loss of trust, (b) changes in the affective style of anticipation, and (c) distressing events involving other people, some of the experiences described by the author, known only as &#8220;Renee,&#8221; appear in a new light. While Renee&#8217;s account might at first seem to describe experiential changes undergone by an individual, which <i>then</i> alter her relations with others, there is also an interpersonal backstory that is less often remarked upon. Renee refers to &#8220;a disturbing sense of unreality,&#8221; which began when she was five years old (21). She goes on to offer more detailed descriptions of pervasive phenomenological changes, which involve everything seeming strange, distant, and unfamiliar:</p>
			<p class="E">Everything was exact, smooth, artificial, extremely tense; the chairs and tables seemed models placed here and there. Pupils and teachers were puppets revolving without cause, without objective. I recognized nothing, nobody. It was as though reality, attenuated, had slipped away from all these things and these people. (26)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">One could identify this with the &#8220;delusional mood&#8221; that often arises in the early stages of schizophrenia, a wide-ranging phenomenological disturbance that both precedes and fuels the onset of delusions and hallucinations. While I do not wish to dispute that interpretation, I do want to supplement it, so as to emphasize the interpersonal, relational dynamics of the experience. Consider the following passage:</p>
			<p class="E">Little by little I brought myself to confide to my friends that the world was about to be destroyed, that planes were coming to bomb and annihilate us. Although I often offered these confidences jestingly I firmly believed them and, to feel less alone, I wanted to share the fears with others. Nonetheless, I did not believe the world would be destroyed as I believed in real facts. Vaguely I had some misgivings that this belief was linked to my own personal fear, that it was specific and not generally held. (34)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Here, two ways of believing, two kinds of intentionality, come into conflict. There is the belief that the world is &#8220;about to be destroyed&#8221; and there is the belief in &#8220;real facts.&#8221; The realm of real facts is identified with the shared world, while the belief that horrible things are about to happen is associated with a &#8220;personal fear&#8221; and recognized, albeit ambivalently, as self-specific and adrift from consensus reality. Also evident here is a need to convey such &#8220;beliefs&#8221; to other people in whom Renee confides (implying a degree of trust in those people), to share them with others and, in so doing, &#8220;feel less alone.&#8221; Relating to others enhances the sense of being part of a shared world, a world with which the apocalyptic realm of bombing and annihilation is to be contrasted. Yet, as we read on, the kind of interpersonal contact she so desperately seeks out presents itself as impossible. Other people no longer offer the possibility of interpersonal connection. In fact, they are sometimes not experienced as people at all: &#8220;I look at her, study her, praying to feel the life in her through the enveloping unreality. But she seems more a statue than ever, a mannikin moved by a mechanism, talking like an automaton. It is horrible, inhuman, grotesque&#8221; (38).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Earlier in the text, we see that phenomenological disturbances (which later intensify) are consistently accompanied by extreme &#8220;anxiety&#8221; (22). Furthermore, their initial onset is associated with troubling life events: &#8220;it was during this same period that I learned my father had a mistress and that he made my mother cry. This revelation bowled me over because I had heard my mother say that if my father left her, she would kill herself&#8221; (22). This situation impacts on Renee&#8217;s sense of confidence in other people and in the world more generally. It &#8220;bowled her over,&#8221; bringing about&#8212;I suggest&#8212;a shift in anticipatory style. In place of confident anticipation and fulfilment, there is an all-enveloping feeling of anxiety and unpredictability, exactly what I described in terms of the loss of trust, confidence, or certainty. The ensuing phenomenological disturbances themselves induce even more pronounced feelings of anxiety and estrangement, which further exacerbate the sense of unreality, and so forth.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Throughout the remainder of the text, there are numerous references to intensifying feelings of anxiety and interpersonal isolation, all of which are consistent with a process of unraveling that begins with the erosion of basic trust: &#8220;I was seized with panic&#8221; (23); &#8220;an inexpressible anguish pressed in on me&#8221; (25); &#8220;profound dread overwhelmed me&#8221; (26); &#8220;ghastly fear gripped me&#8221; (27); &#8220;[singing] lessons aroused an immeasurable anxiety quite disproportionate to the cause&#8221; (29); &#8220;an awful terror bound me&#8221; (30); &#8220;for the first time I felt <i>real fear</i>&#8221; (32); &#8220;suddenly Fear, agonizing, boundless Fear, overcame me, not the usual uneasiness of unreality, but real fear, such as one knows at the approach of danger, of calamity&#8221; (32). Changes in how things and people appear to Renee, and more enveloping changes in her sense of reality, are inextricable from a kind of affective anticipation, an all-enveloping but inchoate sense that something terrible is about to happen:</p>
			<p class="E">Then everything seemed to stop, to wait, to hold its breath, in a state of extreme tension, the tension of the needle in the haystack. Something seemed about to occur, some extraordinary catastrophe. An overpowering anxiety forced me to stop and wait. (30)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Loss of practical familiarity is also a consistent theme: &#8220;I lost the feeling of practical things&#8221; (29). Again, this can be understood&#8212;at least in part&#8212;in terms of losing trust. Estranged from a consensus world and from the possibility of trusting relations, projects collapse and the prospect of meaningful activity is gone. Loss of trust in others erodes confidence in the world more generally, given that the salience, utility, and reliability of artifacts and other features of the social environment implicate other people in one or another way. Renee&#8217;s confidence in her own practical and intellectual abilities, and even in the names and functions of everyday entities, is also lost. Guilt and sin become consistent and conspicuous themes: &#8220;In my fantasy, entire cities lay in ruins, rocks crushed in fragments, all a consequence of my execrable crime, the sin of Cain&#8221; (117). This is not so directly attributable to loss of trust and anxious anticipation. Nevertheless, I think it is plausible to suggest that a sense of passivity, helplessness, loss of interpersonal connection, all-enveloping dread, and exclusion from the consensus world might coagulate into elaborate delusions of guilt, involving a kind of intentionality that differs in kind from that of mundane belief.</p>
			<p class="Tx">As Renee becomes more and more unhinged from the consensus world, we see again how the structure of experience, the sense of reality, and the sense of self are inextricable from an ability to enter into certain kinds of relation with others. Her therapist is the only remaining life-line, which she depends on to maintain a sense of reality: &#8220;then I recognized her, she was again herself, my refuge, my life, my very reality, the precious little oasis of reality in the desert world of my soul&#8221; (46); &#8220;She alone could break through the unreal wall that hemmed me in; she alone kept me in some contact with life&#8221; (54). But eventually even this connection is lost and, for a time, Renee comes to inhabit &#8220;unreality&#8221;&#8212;a modal structure, sub-universe, or meaning province that is completely adrift from the consensus world.</p>
			<p class="Tx">None of this is to challenge phenomenological interpretations of the text that do not interpret Renee&#8217;s account in such an explicitly interpersonal way. Neither is it to assume that the account is reliable. After all, Renee describes how certain experiences struck her as anomalous at the age of five, from the perspective of an adult who has since recovered from severe psychiatric illness. Even if the account is largely reliable, I do not want to insist that my interpretation is the right one. Rather, the point of the example is to show how an emphasis on the modal structure of experience and its inextricability from interpersonal relations opens up the possibility of interpreting first-person accounts in new ways, of understanding forms of experience that otherwise seem obscure, and of seeing how interpersonal events that might at first appear incidental to a first-person narrative can turn out to be central. In Renee&#8217;s case, there is another story to be told, involving unsettling events, interpersonal estrangement, loss of trust, and social anxiety. It is plausible to situate her departure from consensus reality, and the eventual onset of anomalous experiences with more specific contents, in this context.<sup><span id="n6-28"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-28">28</a></span></sup></p>
			<div><a id="part8"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6.8 </span>Phenomenology Meets Predictive Coding</p>
			<p class="TxNI">I have focused principally on the phenomenology of psychiatric illness, emphasizing the modalities of intentionality, how the integrity of experience implicates other people, and also the dynamic, temporal structure of experience. I have suggested that the sense of being in a given type of intentional state is constituted&#8212;at least in part&#8212;by a characteristic temporal profile and its departure from the profile of perceptual experience. To conclude the chapter, I want to draw attention to some affinities between this approach and some recent developments in neurobiology. Phenomenological findings have the potential to inform neurobiological research. For instance, if one wishes to study the neurobiology of VHs, and if I am right, then one will get nowhere by regarding VHs as a unitary kind and failing to distinguish hypervigilance VHs from internal VHs, or inner speech VHs from memory VHs. So phenomenology can assist neurobiological research by clarifying <i>what it is</i> that requires explanation. Conversely, we can corroborate or fail to corroborate phenomenological claims via neurobiological studies. For instance, the distinctions drawn here between types of VH would be supported, at least to some extent, by the discovery of associated neurobiological differences. On the other hand, if no study, however ingenious, could detect any discernible differences between external and internal VHs, which I claim to be quite different in kind, this would give us compelling grounds for reconsidering the phenomenology.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What I have said also relates to more specific developments in cognitive science. Chapter 4 discussed how mechanistic explanations of VHs are usually premised on the view that they involve thoughts that are unanticipated. This is inconsistent with the observation that VH experiences often include conscious long-term and short-term anticipation. Hence, if we wish to account for them in terms of a lack of anticipation, we need to supply a more detailed account of which anticipatory processes remain intact, which are lacking, and why the lack of some processes but not others leads to an experience of thought content as alien. Nevertheless, there remains considerable affinity between my account of the phenomenology and a much wider-ranging approach in cognitive science, known as &#8220;predictive processing&#8221; or &#8220;predictive coding.&#8221; As summarized by Andy Clark (2013) in an influential article, the central claim is that brains are &#8220;prediction machines,&#8221; the main task of which is to predict stimuli, match what is predicted with what then occurs, and revise predictions in order to minimize future prediction errors.<sup><span id="n6-29"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-29">29</a></span></sup> The process has a complicated, hierarchical structure and involves two-way interaction between the various levels, with no clear line between perception and belief. According to the predictive coding view, perception does not begin with incoming sensory stimulation. What we perceive is largely the achievement of top-down processes that anticipate and thus &#8220;explain away&#8221; the vast majority of sensory signals, so that we register only those that are in some way unanticipated or anomalous. Clark refers to the nonconscious registration of anomaly as &#8220;surprisal.&#8221; This is to be distinguished from conscious &#8220;surprise,&#8221; as what minimizes surprisal can be very surprising. For example, the most coherent &#8220;interpretation&#8221; of unanticipated sensory signals might be that there is an elephant in the house, even though finding an elephant in the house is very surprising indeed.</p>
			<p class="Tx">There have been several attempts to account for hallucinations and delusions in these terms. For instance, Fletcher and Frith (2009) maintain that all perceptual and cognitive processes involve prediction, detection of anomalies, and updating of expectations in the light of anomalies. Delusions and hallucinations (which they do not regard as categorically distinct) originate in &#8220;false prediction errors.&#8221; Prediction error signals that should be discounted are disrupted in some way and consequently assigned &#8220;undue weight.&#8221; Errors require that expectations be adjusted, but no amount of adjustment will manage to account for error signals that are false, and so the end result is that false prediction errors are &#8220;propagated upwards through the hierarchy&#8221; (55). The phenomenological correlate of this is things looking oddly salient and anomalous, in ways that cannot be attributed to anything specific in the environment, and this fuels the formation of delusions and hallucinations. Corlett et al. (2009, 2010) likewise suggest that delusions are the result of misleading prediction error signals. First of all, there is aberrant salience, and the updating processes that responds to it ultimately culminates in delusion:</p>
			<p class="E">During the earliest phases of delusion formation aberrant novelty, salience or prediction error signals drive attention toward redundant or irrelevant environmental cues, the world seems to have changed, it feels strange and sinister, such signals and experiences provide an impetus for new learning which updates the world model inappropriately, manifest as a delusion. (Corlett et al. 2010, 347)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">This complements Jaspers&#8217; (1963) account of delusion formation, according to which delusional atmosphere generates a kind of tension, which delusions then relieve by making sense of anomalous experiences in more specific ways (Ratcliffe 2013a; Sass and Byrom 2015). Corlett et al. (2010, 351&#8211;353) further acknowledge the need to accommodate &#8220;affectively charged uncertainty,&#8221; and also note that &#8220;motivational state&#8221; can shape what is perceived when signals are noisy and indeterminate, a position that is consistent with what I have said about anxiety and hypervigilance VHs.<sup><span id="n6-30"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f6-30">30</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Nevertheless, phenomenological research suggests that a more nuanced approach is needed here. Anticipation-fulfillment processes not only shape the <i>contents</i> of experience; they are also integral to the sense of undergoing one or another kind of experience, given that different types of affective anticipation are integral to different types of intentionality. So the prediction error approach needs to be widened, to account not only for anomalous experiential contents but also for disturbances in the sense of one&#8217;s intentional state. Clark (2016) has gone on to offer a more detailed treatment of predictive coding, which draws on a wide range of empirical findings. Even so, his discussion does not account for disturbances of the modal structure of experience. He indicates that the difference between perceiving and imagining is a matter of detail and consistency. Perception involves fine-grained resolution of prediction errors and, with this, a higher degree of stability over time (2016, 98&#8211;99). While that is right, it does not explain the sense of something as a percept, rather than a product of the imagination, given that a content more typical of an imagining can be associated with a sense of perceiving. Clark does not acknowledge the possibility of such an experience. Instead, he assumes an orthodox conception of hallucination, according to which &#8220;all the machinery of perception is brought to bear,&#8221; but without the more usual guiding role played by prediction error (2016, 196).</p>
			<p class="Tx">A further complication is that experience involves a range of different anticipatory styles, and what is anomalous in relation to one may be quite consistent with another. There is nothing anomalous about imagining a giant badger turning into a rocket, but this does not apply in the case of perceptual experience. Another consideration is that something can appear incongruous even though it is anticipated, such as a VH experience that one dreads as it crystallizes. It still stands out relative to other aspects of experience, and an account is needed not merely of how surprise relates to surprisal but of how different nonconscious processes relate to all of the various ways in which something might appear incongruous, discrepant, or other than it ought to be, not all of which involve surprise.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Consider also the distinction between &#8220;open&#8221; and &#8220;problematic&#8221; uncertainty (introduced in sec. 5.5 of chap. 5), which should apply equally to predictive processing. Failing to anticipate certain details and then filling in the blanks is to be distinguished from having an experience that runs contrary, in one or another way, to what was anticipated. Correspondingly, an account of prediction error needs to distinguish between cases where something is salient because it was not anticipated or not fully anticipated, and cases where it is discrepant. In the problematic case, we can also insist on a further distinction between specific doubts, where two or more systems of anticipation compete with each other, and forms of problematic uncertainty that involve the sense that &#8220;it might not be what or how I think it is,&#8221; in the absence of a competing system. The relations between predictions and error signals will surely be different. In one case, we have &#8220;not <i>p</i>&#8221; and, in the other, we have &#8220;<span class="I">p</span> rather than <i>q</i>.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">Even so, the overall approach is broadly consistent with what I have said here, given its emphasis on pervasive patterns of anticipation and fulfillment, upon which the coherence of experience and thought depends. Madary (2012) picks up on Clark&#8217;s (2013) concession that the world does not look like an &#8220;intertwined set of probability density distributions&#8221; and that the predictive processing framework therefore needs to account for the considerable gulf between subpersonal processes and what we actually experience. In fact, as Madary points out, it is plausible that perceptual experience is riddled with anticipation, as exemplified by moments of surprise. And this, of course, is also the view we find in Husserl. But the parallels are closer still. For Husserl, experience involves a pervasive sense of certainty; the vast majority of our experiences accord with habitual anticipation, and occasional, localized doubts appear anomalous, calling out for adjustments. In nonphenomenological terms, this is exactly what predictive processing involves. As Clark (2013, 2016) says, much of what we &#8220;perceive&#8221; is given largely in advance of sensory stimulation&#8212;what is consistent with anticipatory processes is filtered out so that only salient differences are detected. And, just as Husserl&#8217;s account needs to be elaborated in order to distinguish between kinds of affective anticipation and between the distinctive temporal profiles that are characteristic of different types of intentionality, so does the predictive processing framework.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Husserl also offers a more detailed description of the transition from problematic uncertainty, to disappointment, to updating, which is more or less a phenomenological isomorphism of Clark&#8217;s nonphenomenological account. For both, expectations are not simply updated; the prior system of expectation endures, but <i>as</i> updated. Here are some relevant passages from Husserl:</p>
			<p class="E">(In cases of disappointment), the sense of the perception is not only changed in the momentary new stretch of perception; the noematic modification streams back in the form of a retroactive cancellation in the retentional sphere and modifies the production of sense stemming from earlier phases of the perception. (Husserl 1948/1973, &#167;21, p. 89)</p>
			<p class="E">The perceptual sense is changed not merely in the momentary primordially impressional expanse of perception. The noematic transformation radiates back in the form of a retroactive crossing out in the retentional sphere, transforming its accomplishment of sense that stemmed from the previous perceptions. The previous apperception that was harmonized with the consistently unfolding &#8220;red&#8221; and uniform &#8220;round&#8221; is &#8220;reinterpreted&#8221; <i>implicite</i> as &#8220;green&#8221; and &#8220;indented&#8221; &#8230; we are still conscious of the previous sense, but as &#8220;painted over.&#8221; (Husserl 2001, &#167;7, p. 69)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">For Husserl, this process of negation and updating is integral to the distinction between past, present, and future. Similarly, correcting a prediction error involves not erasing and rewriting past expectations but updating them and establishing them as past.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Phenomenology can thus enter into dialogue with this kind of research, and aid in refining and distinguishing some of the phenomena to be accounted for. Importantly, my position also implies that predictive coding should adopt a less individualistic approach and place more emphasis on how anticipation-fulfillment processes are interpersonally regulated and even socially distributed. I have argued that this applies at the phenomenological level, and there are no grounds for insisting that things are otherwise at the &#8220;subpersonal&#8221; level. Consider, for instance, the roles that others&#8217; behavior can play in signaling anomalies elsewhere in the world and in interpreting anomalies. If something looks strange or somehow unreal, you might pinch yourself or shake your head. But you are equally likely to turn to others, see what they are doing, and interact with them. Conversely, others&#8217; behavior can draw your attention to anomalies elsewhere that you would otherwise have been oblivious to, or give you the sense that something anomalous is happening even if you cannot identify quite what is amiss. Clark (2016, 285) recognizes that an agent&#8217;s predictive processes can utilize the predictive processes of other agents, and that relationships of &#8220;continuous reciprocal prediction&#8221; sometimes develop. However, he does not make clear the full extent of this interdependence in the human case. The overall anticipatory structure of experience is interpersonally regulated and sustained. Our brains do not maintain phenomenological coherence on their own, and neither do our organisms. The point applies equally to nonconscious anticipatory processes, which are supposed to account for the relevant phenomenology or at least be consistent with it. As those with a fondness for one or another form of enactivism might put it, we socially enact the modal structure of intentionality, and, with it, the most basic sense of self.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
