<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_444" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="ref"/></div>
			<p class="FBH">References</p>
			<p class="RefTxf">Aggernaes, A. 1972. The experienced reality of hallucinations and other psychological phenomena: An empirical analysis. <i>Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica</i> 48:220&#8211;238.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Akins, K. A., and D. C. Dennett. 1986. Who may I say is calling? <i>Behavioral and Brain Sciences</i> 9:517&#8211;518.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Aleman, A., and F. Lar&#248;i. 2008. <i>Hallucinations: The Science of Idiosyncratic Perception</i>. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Allen, K. 2015. Hallucination and imagination. <i>Australasian Journal of Philosophy</i> 193:287&#8211;302.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Allen, J. G., L. Coyne, and D. A. Console. 1997. Dissociative detachment relates to psychotic symptoms and personality decompensation. <i>Comprehensive Psychiatry</i> 38:327&#8211;334.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Allen, P., D. Freeman, P. McGuire, P. Garety, E. Kuipers, D. Fowler, P. Bebbington, C. Green, G. Dunn, and K. Ray. 2005. The prediction of hallucinatory predisposition in non-clinical individuals: Examining the contribution of emotion and reasoning. <i>British Journal of Clinical Psychology</i> 44:127&#8211;132.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">American Psychiatric Association. 2000. <i>Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders</i>. 4th ed. Text Revision Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Association.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">American Psychiatric Association. 2013. <i>Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders</i>. 5th ed. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Association.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Am&#233;ry, J. 1999. <i>At the Mind&#8217;s Limits: Contemplations by a Survivor on Auschwitz and Its Realities</i>. Trans. S. Rosenfeld and S. P. Rosenfeld. London: Granta Books.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Amnesty International. 1986. <i>Voices for Freedom</i>. London: Amnesty International Publications.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Andrew, E. M., N. S. Gray, and R. J. Snowden. 2008. The relationship between trauma and beliefs about hearing voices: A study of psychiatric and non-psychiatric voice hearers. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 38:1409&#8211;1417.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Armstrong, D. M. 1973. <i>Belief, Truth and Knowledge</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Atkinson, J. R. 2006. The perceptual characteristics of voice-hallucinations in deaf people: Insights into the nature of subvocal thought and sensory feedback loops. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 32:701&#8211;708.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Austin, J. L. 1962. <i>Sense and Sensibilia</i>. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Baier, A. 1986. Trust and antitrust. <i>Ethics</i> 96:231&#8211;260.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Barnes, J. 2013. <i>Levels of Life</i>. London: Jonathan Cape.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bayliss, A. P., A. Frischen, M. J. Fenske, and S. P. Tipper. 2007. Affective evaluations of objects are influenced by observed gaze direction and emotional expression. <i>Cognition</i> 104:644&#8211;653.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bayne, T., and M. Montague, eds. 2011. <i>Cognitive Phenomenology</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Beavan, V., J. Read, and C. Cartwright. 2011. The prevalence of voice-hearers in the general population: A literature review. <i>Journal of Mental Health</i> 20:281&#8211;292.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Becchio, C., C. Bertone, and U. Castiello. 2008. How the gaze of others influences object processing. <i>Trends in Cognitive Sciences</i> 12:254&#8211;258.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bell, V. 2013. A community of one: Social cognition and auditory verbal hallucinations. <i>PLoS Biology</i> 11 (12): 1&#8211;4.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bennett, G., and K. M. Bennett. 2000. The presence of the dead: An empirical study. <i>Mortality</i> 5:139&#8211;157.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Benson, O., S. Gibson, and S. Brand. 2013. The experience of agency in the feeling of being suicidal. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 20 (7&#8211;8): 56&#8211;79.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bentall, R. P. 1990. The illusion of reality: A review and integration of psychological research on hallucinations. <i>Psychological Bulletin</i> 107:82&#8211;95.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bentall, R. P. 2003. <i>Madness Explained: Psychosis and Human Nature</i>. London: Penguin Books.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bentall, R. P. 2009. <i>Doctoring the Mind: Why Psychiatric Treatments Fail</i>. London: Allen Lane.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bentall, R. P., and C. Fernyhough. 2008. Social predictors of psychotic experiences: Specificity and psychological mechanisms. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 34:1012&#8211;1020.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bentall, R. P., and F. Varese. 2013. Psychotic hallucinations. In <i>Hallucination: Philosophy and Psychology</i>, ed. F. Macpherson and D. Platchias, 65&#8211;86. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bernstein, J. 2011. Trust: On the real but almost always unnoticed, ever-changing foundation of ethical life. <i>Metaphilosophy</i> 42:395&#8211;416.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Berrios, G. E., and T. R. Dening. 1996. Pseudohallucinations: A conceptual history. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 26:753&#8211;763.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Beveridge, A. 1998. Psychology of compulsory detention. <i>Psychiatric Bulletin</i> 22:115&#8211;117.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Billon, A. 2013. Does consciousness entail subjectivity? The puzzle of thought insertion. <i>Philosophical Psychology</i> 26:291&#8211;314.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Birchwood, M., A. Meaden, P. Trower, P. Gilbert, and J. Plaistow. 2000. The power and omnipotence of voices: Subordination and entrapment by voices and significant others. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 30:337&#8211;344.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Birchwood, M., P. Trower, K. Brunet, P. Gilbert, Z. Iqbal, and C. Jackson. 2006. Social anxiety and the shame of psychosis: A study in first episode psychosis. <i>Behaviour Research and Therapy</i> 45:1025&#8211;1037.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Blakemore, S. J., D. Wolpert, and C. Frith. 2000. Why can&#8217;t you tickle yourself? <i>Neuroreport</i> 11 (11): R11&#8211;R16.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Blankenburg, W. 1969/2001. First steps towards a psychopathology of &#8220;common sense.&#8221; Trans. A. L. Mishara. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 8:303&#8211;315.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Blankenburg, W. 1971/2012. <i>Der Verlust der nat&#252;rlichen Selbstverst&#228;ndlichkeit: Ein Bertrag zur Psychopathologie symptomarmer Schizophrenien</i>. Berlin: Parodos Verlag.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bleuler, E. 1950. <i>Dementia Praecox or the Group of Schizophrenias</i>. Trans. J. Zinkin. New York: International Universities Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Borda, J. P., and L. A. Sass. 2015. Phenomenology and neurobiology of self disorder in schizophrenia: Primary factors. <i>Schizophrenia Research</i> 169:464&#8211;473.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bortolotti, L., and M. Broome. 2009. A role for ownership and authorship in the analysis of thought insertion. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 8:205&#8211;224.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Bortolotti, L., and M. Broome. 2012. Affective dimensions of the phenomenon of double bookkeeping in delusions. <i>Emotion Review</i> 4:187&#8211;191.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Braithwaite, R. B. 1932&#8211;1933. The nature of believing. <i>Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society</i> 33:129&#8211;146.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Breyer, T., and C. Gutland, eds. 2016. <i>Phenomenology of Thinking: Philosophical Investigations into the Character of Cognitive Experiences</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Brison, S. J. 2002. <i>Aftermath: Violence and the Remaking of a Self</i>. Princeton, NJ: Prince&#173;ton University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Broome, M. R., J. B. Woolley, P. Tabraham, L. C. Johns, E. Bramon, G. K. Murray, C. Pariante, P. K. McGuire, and R. M. Murray. 2005. What causes the onset of psychosis? <i>Schizophrenia Research</i> 79:23&#8211;34.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Cahill, C., and C. Frith. 1996. False perceptions or false beliefs? Hallucinations and delusions in schizophrenia. In <i>Method in Madness: Case Studies in Cognitive Neuropsychiatry</i>, ed. P. W. Halligan and J. C. Marshall, 267&#8211;291. Hove: Psychology Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Campbell, J. 1999. Schizophrenia, the space of reasons, and thinking as a motor process. <i>Monist</i> 82:609&#8211;625.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Campbell, J. 2001. Rationality, meaning, and the analysis of delusion. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 8:89&#8211;100.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Campbell, S. 1997. <i>Interpreting the Personal: Expression and the Formation of Feelings</i>. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Carel, H. 2013. Bodily doubt. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 20 (7&#8211;8): 178&#8211;197.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Carse, J. P. 1981. Grief as a cosmic crisis. In <i>Acute Grief: Counseling the Bereaved</i>, ed. O. S. Margolis, H. C. Raether, A. H. Kutscher, J. B. Powers, I. B. Seeland, R. DeBillis and D. J. Cherico, 3&#8211;8. New York: Columbia University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Castelnovo, A., S. Cavalloti, O. Gambini, and A. D&#8217;Agostino. 2015. Post-bereavement hallucinatory experiences: A critical overview of population and clinical studies. <i>Journal of Affective Disorders</i> 186:266&#8211;274.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Cermolacce, M., J. Naudin, and J. Parnas. 2007. The &#8220;minimal self&#8221; in psychopathology: Re-examining the self-disorders in the schizophrenia spectrum. <i>Consciousness and Cognition</i> 16:703&#8211;714.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Chadwick, P., and M. Birchwood. 1994. The omnipotence of voices: A cognitive approach to auditory hallucinations. <i>British Journal of Psychiatry</i> 164:190&#8211;201.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Clark, A. 2013. Whatever next? Predictive brains, situated agents, and the future of cognitive science. <i>Behavioral and Brain Sciences</i> 36:181&#8211;204.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Clark, A. 2016. <i>Surfing Uncertainty; Prediction, Action, and the Embodied Mind</i>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Colombetti, G. 2009. What language does to feelings. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 16:4&#8211;26.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Colombetti, G., and J. Krueger. 2015. Scaffoldings of the affective mind. <i>Philosophical Psychology</i> 28:1157&#8211;1176.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Colombetti, G., and S. Torrance. 2009. Emotion and ethics: An inter(en)active approach. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 8:505&#8211;526.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Conrad, K. 2012. Beginning schizophrenia: Attempt for a Gestalt-analysis of delusion. Trans. A. Mishara. In <i>The Maudsley Reader in Phenomenological Psychiatry</i>, ed. M. R. Broome, R. Harland, G. S. Owen and A. Stringaris, 176&#8211;193. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Copolov, D. L., A. Mackinnon, and T. Trauer. 2004. Correlates of the affective impact of auditory hallucinations in psychotic disorders. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 30:163&#8211;171.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Corb&#237;, J. E. 2012. <i>Morality, Self-Knowledge, and Human Suffering: An Essay on the Loss of Confidence in the World</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Corlett, P. R., J. H. Krystal, J. R. Taylor, and P. C. Fletcher. 2009. Why do delusions persist? <i>Frontiers in Human Neuroscience</i> 3/12:1&#8211;9.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Corlett, P. R., J. R. Taylor, X.-J. Wang, P. C. Fletcher, and J. H. Krystal. 2010. Toward a neurobiology of delusions. <i>Progress in Neurobiology</i> 92:345&#8211;369.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Corstens, D., E. Longden, and R. May. 2012. Talking with voices: Exploring what is expressed by the voices people hear. <i>Psychosis</i> 4:95&#8211;104.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Costanzo, M. A., and E. Gerrity. 2009. The effects and effectiveness of using torture as an interrogation device: Using research to inform the policy debate. <i>Social Issues and Policy Review</i> 3:179&#8211;210.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Csibra, G., and G. Gergely. 2009. Natural pedagogy. <i>Trends in Cognitive Sciences</i> 13:148&#8211;153.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Currie, G. 2000. Imagination, delusion, and hallucinations. In <i>Pathologies of Belief</i>, ed. M. Coltheart and M. Davies, 167&#8211;182. Oxford: Blackwell.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Currie, G., and J. Jureidini. 2001. Delusion, rationality, empathy: Commentary on Davies et al. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 8:159&#8211;162.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Currie, G., and J. Jureidini. 2004. Narrative and coherence. <i>Mind &amp; Language</i> 19:409&#8211;427.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Currie, G., and I. Ravenscroft. 2002. <i>Recreative Minds</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">David, A. S. 1994. The neuropsychological origin of auditory hallucinations. In <i>The Neuropsychology of Schizophrenia</i>, ed. A. S. David  and J. C. Cutting, 269&#8211;313. Hove: Psychology Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">de Haan, S., and L. de Bruin. 2010. Reconstructing the minimal self, or How to make sense of agency and ownership. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 9:373&#8211;396.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">de Haan, S., and T. Fuchs. 2010. The ghost in the machine: Disembodiment in schizophrenia&#8212;two case studies. <i>Psychopathology</i> 43:327&#8211;333.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">De Jaegher, H., and E. Di Paolo. 2007. Participatory sense-making: An enactive approach to social cognition. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 6:485&#8211;507.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Delespaul, P., M. de Vries, and J. van Os. 2002. Determinants of occurrence and recovery from hallucinations in daily life. <i>Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology</i> 37:97&#8211;104.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">De Sousa, R. 1987. <i>The Rationality of Emotion</i>. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Diamond, L. M., and L. G. Aspinwall. 2003. Emotion regulation across the life span: An integrative perspective emphasizing self-regulation, positive affect, and dyadic processes. <i>Motivation and Emotion</i> 27:125&#8211;156.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Didion, J. 2005. <i>The Year of Magical Thinking</i>. London: Harper Perennial.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Didion, J. 2011. <i>Blue Nights</i>. London: Fourth Estate.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Dodgson, G., and S. Gordon. 2009. Avoiding false negatives: Are some auditory hallucinations an evolved design flaw? <i>Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapy</i> 37:325&#8211;334.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Dorsch, F. 2010. The unity of hallucinations. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 9:71&#8211;191.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Dreyfus, H. L. 2002. Intelligence without representation&#8212;Merleau-Ponty&#8217;s critique of mental representation. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 1:367&#8211;383.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Earnshaw, O. 2011. Recovering the voice of insanity: A phenomenology of delusions. Doctoral thesis, Durham University. <a href="http://etheses.dur.ac.uk/3225/">http://etheses.dur.ac.uk/3225/</a>.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Egan, A. 2009. Imagination, delusion, and self-deception. In <i>Delusion and Self-Deception</i>, ed. T. Byne and J. Fern&#225;ndez, 263&#8211;280. London: Psychology Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Farkas, K. 2013. A sense of reality. In <i>Hallucination: Philosophy and Psychology</i>, ed. F. Macpherson and D. Platchias, 399&#8211;415. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fernyhough, C. 2004. Alien voices and inner dialogue: Towards a developmental account of auditory verbal hallucinations. <i>New Ideas in Psychology</i> 22:49&#8211;68.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fernyhough, C., and S. McCarthy-Jones. 2013. Thinking aloud about mental voices. In <i>Hallucination: Philosophy and Psychology</i>, ed. F. Macpherson and D. Platchias, 87&#8211;104. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fletcher, P. C., and C. D. Frith. 2009. Perceiving is believing: A Bayesian approach to explaining the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. <i>Nature Reviews: Neuroscience</i> 10:48&#8211;58.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fonagy, P., and E. Allison. 2014. The role of mentalizing and epistemic trust in the therapeutic relationship. <i>Psychotherapy </i>51:372&#8211;380.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ford, J. R. 1999. Disorders of extreme stress following warzone military trauma: Associated features of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or comorbid but distinct syndromes? <i>Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology</i> 67:3&#8211;12.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Freeman, D., and A. Garety. 2003. Connecting neurosis and psychosis: The direct influence of emotion on delusions and hallucinations. <i>Behaviour Research and Therapy</i> 41:923&#8211;947.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Freeman, M. 2000. When the story&#8217;s over: Narrative foreclosure and the possibility of self-renewal. In <i>Lines of Narrative: Psychosocial Perspectives</i>, ed. M. Andrews, S. D. Sclater, C. Squire and A. Treacher, 81&#8211;91. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Frith, C. 1992. <i>The Cognitive Neuropsychology of Schizophrenia</i>. Hove: Psychology Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Frith, C. 2012. Explaining delusions of control: The comparator model 20 years on. <i>Consciousness and Cognition</i> 21:52&#8211;54.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Frith, C. D., S.-J. Blakemore, and D. M. Wolpert. 2000. Abnormalities in the awareness and control of action. <i>Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, Series B</i> 355:1771&#8211;1788.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Froese, T., and T. Fuchs. 2012. The extended body: A case study in the neurophenomenology of social interaction. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 11:205&#8211;235.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fuchs, T. 2012. Selbst und Schizophrenie. <i>Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Philosophie</i> 60:887&#8211;901.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fuchs, T. 2013. The self in schizophrenia: Jaspers, Schneider and beyond. In <i>One Century of Karl Jaspers&#8217; General Psychopathology</i>, ed. G. Stanghellini and T. Fuchs, 245&#8211;257. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fuchs, T. 2015. Pathologies of intersubjectivity in autism and schizophrenia. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 22 (1&#8211;2): 191&#8211;214.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Fuchs, T., and H. De Jaegher. 2009. Enactive intersubjectivity: Participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 8:465&#8211;486.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gallagher, S. 2005. <i>How the Body Shapes the Mind</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gallagher, S. 2009a. Two problems of intersubjectivity. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 16 (6&#8211;8): 289&#8211;308.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gallagher, S. 2009b. Delusional realities. In <i>Psychiatry as Cognitive Neuroscience: Philosophical Perspectives</i>, ed. M. Broome and L. Bortolotti, 245&#8211;266. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gallagher, S. 2015. Relations between agency and ownership in the case of schizophrenic thought insertion and delusions of control. <i>Review of Philosophy and Psychology</i> 6:865&#8211;879.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gallagher, S., and D. Zahavi. 2008. <i>The Phenomenological Mind</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Garrett, M., and R. Silva. 2003. Auditory hallucinations, source monitoring, and the belief that &#8220;voices&#8221; are real. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 29:445&#8211;457.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gendler, T. S. 2008. Alief and belief. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i> 105:634&#8211;663.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gendlin, E. T. 1978/2003. <i>Focusing: How to Gain Direct Access to Your Body&#8217;s Knowledge</i>. London: Rider Books.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gerrans, P. 2014. <i>The Measure of Madness: Philosophy of Mind, Cognitive Neuroscience, and Delusional Thought</i>. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Giorgi, A. 2003. A phenomenological approach to research on hallucinations. In <i>Imagination and Its Pathologies</i>, ed. J. Phillips and J. Morley, 209&#8211;224. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gjerde, P. F. 1983. Attention capacity dysfunction and arousal in schizophrenia. <i>Psychological Bulletin</i> 93:57&#8211;72.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Glas, G. 2003. A conceptual history of anxiety and depression. In <i>Handbook of Depression and Anxiety</i>, 2nd ed., ed. S. Kasper, J. A. de Boer and A. Sitsen, 1&#8211;48. New York: Marcel Dekker.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Goldman, A. 2006. <i>Simulating Minds: The Philosophy, Psychology, and Neuroscience of Mindreading</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Goldie, P. 2000. <i>The Emotions: A Philosophical Exploration</i>. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Goldie, P. 2011. Grief: A narrative account. <i>Ratio</i> 24:119&#8211;137.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Goldie, P. 2012. <i>The Mess Inside: Narrative, Emotion, and the Mind</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Graham, G. 2004. Self-ascription: Thought insertion. In <i>The Philosophy of Psychiatry: A Companion</i>, ed. J. Radden, 89&#8211;105. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Grahek, N. 2007. <i>Feeling Pain and Being in Pain</i>. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Greening, T. 1990. PTSD from the perspective of existential-humanistic psychology. <i>Journal of Traumatic Stress</i> 3:323&#8211;326.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Griffiths, P., and A. Scarantino. 2009. Emotions in the wild: The situated perspective on emotion. In <i>The Cambridge Handbook of Situated Cognition</i>, ed. P. Robbins and M. Aydede, 437&#8211;453. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gross, J. J. 1999. Emotion regulation: Past, present, future. <i>Cognition and Emotion</i> 13:551&#8211;573.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Gross, J. J. 2001. Emotion regulation in adulthood: Timing is everything. <i>Current Directions in Psychological Science</i> 10:214&#8211;219.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Guenther, L. 2013. <i>Solitary Confinement: Social Death and Its Afterlives</i>. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hacking, I. 1992. Multiple personality disorder and its hosts. <i>History of the Human Sciences</i> 5 (2): 3&#8211;31.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Halligan, P. W., and J. C. Marshall. 1996. The wise prophet makes sure of the event first: Hallucinations, amnesia and delusions. In <i>Method in Madness: Case Studies in Cognitive Neuropsychiatry</i>, ed. P. W. Halligan and J. C. Marshall, 237&#8211;266. Hove: Psychology Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hamilton, A. 2014. <i>Routledge Philosophy Guidebook to Wittgenstein and &#8220;On Certainty.&#8221; </i>London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Havens, L. 1986. <i>Making Contact: Uses of Language in Psychotherapy</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hayward, M., K. Berry, and A. Ashton. 2011. Applying interpersonal theories to the understanding of and therapy for auditory hallucinations: A review of the literature and directions for further research. <i>Clinical Psychology Review</i> 31:1313&#8211;1323.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hazan, C., and P. Shaver. 1987. Romantic love conceptualized as an attachment process. <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i> 52:511&#8211;524.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Heidegger, M. 1927/1962. <i>Being and Time</i>. Trans. J. Macquarrie and E. Robinson. Oxford: Blackwell.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hemon, A. 2013. <i>The Book of My Lives</i>. London: Picador.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Henriksen, M. G. 2013. On incomprehensibility in schizophrenia. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 12:105&#8211;129.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Henriksen, M. G., A. Raballo, and J. Parnas. 2015. The pathogenesis of auditory verbal hallucinations in schizophrenia: A clinical-phenomenological account. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 22:165&#8211;181.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Herman, J. 1997. <i>Trauma and Recovery</i>. 2nd ed. New York: Basic Books.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hersch, E. L. 2003. Imagination: Looking in the right place (and in the right way). In <i>Imagination and Its Pathologies</i>, ed. J. Phillips and J. Morley, 21&#8211;36. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Higgins, K. M. 2013. Love and death. In <i>On Emotions: Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. J. Deigh, 159&#8211;178. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hinton, D. E., and L. J. Kirmayer. 2013. Local responses to trauma: Symptom, affect, and healing. <i>Transcultural Psychiatry</i> 50:607&#8211;621.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hobson, P. 1993. <i>Autism and the Development of Mind</i>. Hove: Erlbaum.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hobson, P. 2002. <i>The Cradle of Thought</i>. London: Macmillan.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hoerl, C. 2001. On thought insertion. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 8:189&#8211;200.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hofer, M. A. 1984. Relationships as regulators: A psychobiologic perspective on bereavement. <i>Psychosomatic Medicine</i> 46:183&#8211;197.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hoffman, R. E. 1986. Verbal hallucinations and language production processes in schizophrenia. <i>Behavioral and Brain Sciences</i> 9:503&#8211;548.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hoffman, R. E. 2007. A social deafferentation hypothesis for induction of active schizophrenia. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 33:1066&#8211;1070.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hoffman, R. E., and J. Rapaport. 1994. A psycholinguistic study of auditory/verbal hallucinations: Preliminary findings. In <i>The Neuropsychology of Schizophrenia</i>, ed. A. S. David and J. C. Cutting, 255&#8211;267. Hove: Psychology Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hoffman, R. E., M. Varanko, J. Gilmore, and A. L. Mishara. 2008. Experiential features used by patients with schizophrenia to differentiate &#8220;voices&#8221; from ordinary verbal thought. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 38:1167&#8211;1176.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hohwy, J. 2013. <i>The Predictive Mind</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Horgan, T., and J. Tienson. 2002. The intentionality of phenomenology and the phenomenology of intentionality. In <i>Philosophy of Mind: Classical and Contemporary Readings</i>, ed. D. J. Chalmers, 520&#8211;533. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hume, D. 1740/1978. <i>A Treatise of Human Nature</i>. Ed. L. A. Selby-Bigge, with text revised by P. H. Nidditch. Oxford: Clarendon Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Humphreys, H. 2013. <i>True Story: The Life and Death of My Brother</i>. London: Serpent&#8217;s Tail.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Humpston, C. S., and M. R. Broome. 2016. The spectra of soundless voices and audible thoughts: Towards an integrative model of auditory verbal hallucinations and thought insertion. <i>Review of Philosophy and Psychology</i> 7:611&#8211;629.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Hunt, N. C. 2010. <i>Memory, War and Trauma</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Husserl, E. 1948/1973. <i>Experience and Judgment: Investigations in a Genealogy of Logic</i>. Trans. J. S. Churchill and K. Ameriks. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Husserl, E. 1952/1989. <i>Ideas Pertaining to a Pure Phenomenology and to a Phenomenological Philosophy: Second Book</i>. Trans. R. Rojcewicz and A. Schuwer. Dordrecht: Kluwer.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Husserl, E. 1991. <i>On the Phenomenology of the Consciousness of Internal Time (1893&#8211;1917)</i>. Trans. J. B. Brough. Dordrecht: Kluwer.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Husserl, E. 2001. <i>Analyses Concerning Passive and Active Synthesis: Lectures on Transcendental Logic</i>. Trans. A. J. Steinbock. Dordrecht: Kluwer.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ichikawa, J. 2009. Dreaming and imagination. <i>Mind &amp; Language</i> 24:103&#8211;121.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Istanbul Protocol. 1999. <i>Manual on the Effective Investigation and Documentation of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment</i>. Geneva: United Nations.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">James, W. 1889. The psychology of belief. <i>Mind</i> 14:321&#8211;352.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">James, W. 1897. <i>The Will to Believe and Other Essays in Popular Philosophy</i>. New York: Longmans, Green.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">James, W. 1902. <i>The Varieties of Religious Experience</i>. New York: Longmans, Green.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">James, W. 1907/1981. <i>Pragmatism</i>. Indianapolis: Hackett.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">James, W. 1912. <i>Absolutism and Empiricism</i>. In his <i>Essays in Radical Empiricism</i>, 266&#8211;279. New York: Longmans, Green.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Janoff-Bulman, R. 1992. <i>Shattered Assumptions: Towards a New Psychology of Trauma</i>. New York: The Free Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Jaspers, K. 1963. <i>General Psychopathology</i>. Trans. from the 7th German ed. (1959) by J. Hoenig and M. W. Hamilton. Manchester: University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Johns, L., K. Kompus, M. Connell, C. Humpston, T. Lincoln, E. Longden, A. Preti, et al. 2014. Auditory verbal hallucinations in persons with and without need for care. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 40 (suppl. 4): S255&#8211;S264.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Jones, K. 2004. Trust and terror. In <i>Moral Psychology: Feminist Ethics and Social Theory</i>, ed. P. Des Autels and M. U. Walker, 3&#8211;18. Lanham, MD: Rowman &amp; Littlefield.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Jones, S. R. 2010. Do we need multiple models of auditory verbal hallucinations? Examining the phenomenological fit of cognitive and neurological models. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 36:566&#8211;575.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kapur, S. 2003. Psychosis as a state of aberrant salience: A framework linking biology, phenomenology, and pharmacology in schizophrenia. <i>American Journal of Psychiatry</i> 160:13&#8211;23.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kapur, S., R. Mizrahi, and M. Li. 2005. From dopamine to salience to psychosis&#8212;linking biology, pharmacology and phenomenology of psychosis. <i>Schizophrenia Research</i> 79:59&#8211;68.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Karlsson, L.-B. 2008. &#8220;More real than reality&#8221;: A study of voice hearing. <i>International Journal of Social Welfare</i> 17:365&#8211;373.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kean, C. 2009. Silencing the self: Schizophrenia as a self-disturbance. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 35:1034&#8211;1036.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Keen, C., C. Murray, and S. Payne. 2013. Sensing the presence of the deceased: A narrative review. <i>Mental Health, Religion, &amp; Culture</i> 16:384&#8211;402.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kelleher, I., H. Keeley, P. Corcoran, H. Ramsay, C. Wasserman, V. Carli, M. Sarchiapone, C. Hoven, D. Wasserman, and M. Cannon. 2013. Childhood trauma and psychosis in a prospective cohort study: Cause, effect, and directionality. <i>American Journal of Psychiatry</i> 170:734&#8211;741.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kendler, K. S. 2015. The dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia: An updated perspective. In <i>Philosophical Issues in Psychiatry III: The Nature and Sources of Historical Change</i>, ed. K. S. Kendler and J. Parnas, 283&#8211;294. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kenny, P. D. 2010. The meaning of torture. <i>Polity</i> 42:131&#8211;155.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kilcommons, A. M., and A. P. Morrison. 2005. Relationships between trauma and psychosis: An exploration of cognitive and dissociative factors. <i>Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica</i> 112:351&#8211;359.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kirmayer, L. J. 1996. Landscapes of memory: Trauma, narrative, and dissociation. In <i>Tense Past: Cultural Essays on Memory and Trauma</i>, ed. P. Antze and M. Lambek, 173&#8211;198. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Klass, D., P. R. Silverman, and S. L. Nickman, eds. 1996. <i>Continuing Bonds: New Understandings of Grief</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kraepelin, E. 1919. <i>Dementia Praecox and Paraphrenia</i>. Trans. R. M. Barclay. Edinburgh: E. &amp; S. Livingstone.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kraus, A. 2007. Schizophrenic delusion and hallucination as the expression and consequence of an alteration of the existential a prioris. In <i>Reconceiving Schizophrenia</i>, ed. M. C. Chung, K. W. M. Fulford and G. Graham, 97&#8211;111. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kuipers, E., P. Garety, D. Fowler, D. Freeman, G. Dunn, and P. Bebbington. 2006. Cognitive, emotional, and social processes in psychosis: Refining cognitive behavioral therapy for persistent positive symptoms. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 32 (S1): 24&#8211;31.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kusch, M. 2011. Disagreement and picture in Wittgenstein&#8217;s &#8220;Lectures on Religious Belief.&#8221; In <i>Image and Imaging in Philosophy, Science and the Arts, </i>vol. 1, ed. R. Heinrich, E. Nemeth, W. Pichler, and D. Wagner, 35&#8211;38. Publications of the Austrian Ludwig Wittgenstein Society, New Series, vol. 16. Frankfurt: Ontos Verlag.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Kusch, M. Forthcoming. Analysing holocaust survivor testimony: Certainties, scepticism, relativism.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Laing, R. D. 1960. <i>The Divided Self: A Study of Sanity and Madness</i>. London: Tavistock Publications.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Lamb, K., R. Pies, and S. Zisook. 2010. The bereavement exclusion for the diagnosis of major depression: To be, or not to be. <i>Psychiatry</i> 7 (7): 19&#8211;25.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Landis, C. 1964. <i>Varieties of Psychopathological Experience</i>. New York: Holt, Rinehart &amp; Winston.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Langland-Hassan, P. 2008. Fractured phenomenologies: Thought insertion, inner speech, and the puzzle of extraneity. <i>Mind &amp; Language</i> 23:369&#8211;401.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Larkin, W., and A. P. Morrison, eds. 2006. <i>Trauma and Psychosis: New Directions for Theory and Therapy</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Larkin, W., and J. Read. 2012. Childhood trauma and psychosis: Revisiting the evidence. In <i>Psychosis as a Personal Crisis: An Experience-Based Approach</i>, ed. M. Romme and S. Escher, 61&#8211;73. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Lar&#248;i, F. 2006. The phenomenological diversity of hallucinations: Some theoretical and clinical implications. <i>Psychologica Belgica</i> 46:163&#8211;183.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Lar&#248;i, F., S. de Haan, S. Jones, and A. Raballo. 2010. Auditory verbal hallucinations: Dialoguing between the cognitive sciences and phenomenology. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 9:225&#8211;240.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Laub, D. 2001. Introduction to the English-Language edition. In <i>At the Side of Torture Survivors: Treating a Terrible Assault on Human Dignity</i>, ed. S. Graessner, G. Norbert, and C. Pross, trans. J. M. Riemer. Baltimore: The John Hopkins University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Lear, J. 2006. <i>Radical Hope: Ethics in the Face of Cultural Devastation</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Leudar, I., P. Thomas, D. McNally, and A. Glinski. 1997. What voices can do with words: Pragmatics of verbal hallucinations. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 27:885&#8211;898.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Lewis, C. S. 1966. <i>A Grief Observed</i>. London: Faber &amp; Faber.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">L&#248;gstrup, K. E. 1956/1997. <i>The Ethical Demand</i>. Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Longden, E., A. Madill, and M. G. Waterman. 2012. Dissociation, trauma, and the role of lived experience: Toward a new conceptualization of voice hearing. <i>Psychological Bulletin</i> 138:28&#8211;76.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Luhrmann, T. M., R. Padmavati, H. Tharoor, and A. Osei. 2015. Hearing voices in different cultures: A social kindling hypothesis. <i>Topics in Cognitive Science</i> 7:646&#8211;663.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Lysaker, P. H., J. K. Johannesen, and J. T. Lysaker. 2005. Schizophrenia and the experience of intersubjectivity as threat. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 4:335&#8211;352.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Maclaren, K. 2008. Embodied perceptions of others as a condition of selfhood? Empirical and phenomenological considerations. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 15 (8): 63&#8211;93.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Macpherson, F. 2013. The philosophy and psychology of hallucination: An introduction. In <i>Hallucination: Philosophy and Psychology</i>, ed. F. Macpherson and D. Platchias, 1&#8211;38. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Madary, M. 2012. How would the world look if it looked as if it were encoded as an intertwined set of probability density distributions? <i>Frontiers in Psychology</i> 3 (art. 419):1&#8211;2.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Madary, M. 2013. Anticipation and variation in visual content. <i>Philosophical Studies</i> 165:335&#8211;347.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Maiese, M. 2015. Thought insertion as a disownership symptom. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 14:911&#8211;927.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Martin, J.-R., and E. Pacherie. 2013. Out of nowhere: Thought insertion, ownership, and context-integration. <i>Consciousness and Cognition</i> 22:111&#8211;122.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Martin, M. G. F. 2002. The transparency of experience. <i>Mind &amp; Language</i> 17:376&#8211;425.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Martin, M. G. F. 2004. The limits of self-awareness. <i>Philosophical Studies</i> 120:37&#8211;89.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">McCarthy-Jones, S. 2012. <i>Hearing Voices: The Histories, Causes, and Meanings of Auditory Verbal Hallucinations</i>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">McCarthy-Jones, S., T. Trauer, A. Mackinnon, E. Sims, N. Thomas, and D. L. Copolov. 2014. A new phenomenological survey of auditory hallucinations: Evidence for subtypes and implications for theory and practice. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 40:231&#8211;235.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">McGann, M., and H. De Jaegher. 2009. Self-other contingencies: Enacting social perception. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 8:417&#8211;437.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Mellor, C. H. 1970. First rank symptoms of schizophrenia. <i>British Journal of Psychiatry</i> 117:15&#8211;23.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Merleau-Ponty, M. 1945/2012. <i>Phenomenology of Perception</i>. Trans. D. Landes. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Merleau-Ponty, M. 1964. <i>The Primacy of Perception</i>. Ed. J. M. Edie. Evanston: Northwestern University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Merleau-Ponty, M. 1968. <i>The Visible and the Invisible</i>. Trans. A. Lingis. Evanston: Northwestern University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Michie, P. T., J. C. Badcock, F. A. V. Waters, and M. T. Maybery. 2005. Auditory hallucinations: Failure to inhibit irrelevant memories. <i>Cognitive Neuropsychiatry</i> 10:125&#8211;136.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Minkowski, E. 1970. <i>Lived Time: Phenomenological and Psychopathological Studies</i>. Trans. N. Metzel. Evanston: Northwestern University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Morgan, C., and C. Gayer-Anderson. 2016. Childhood adversities and psychosis: Evidence, challenges, implications. <i>World Psychiatry </i>15:93&#8211;102.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Moritz, S., and F. Lar&#248;i. 2008. Differences and similarities in the sensory and cognitive signatures of voice-hearing, intrusions, and thoughts. <i>Schizophrenia Research</i> 102:96&#8211;107.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Morley, J. 2003. The texture of the real: Merleau-Ponty on imagination and psychopathology. In <i>Imagination and Its Pathologies</i>, ed. J. Phillips and J. Morley, 93&#8211;108. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Morrison, A. P., L. Frame, and W. Larkin. 2003. Relationships between trauma and psychosis: A review and integration. <i>British Journal of Clinical Psychology</i> 42:331&#8211;353.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Moyal-Sharrock, D. 2005. <i>Understanding Wittgenstein&#8217;s &#8220;On Certainty.&#8221;</i> Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Mueser, K. T., S. D. Rosenberg, L. A. Goodman, and S. L. Trumbetta. 2002. Trauma, PTSD, and the course of severe mental illness: An interactive model. <i>Schizophrenia Research</i> 53:123&#8211;143.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Myin-Germeys, I., and J. van Os. 2007. Stress-reactivity in psychosis: Evidence for an affective pathway to psychosis. <i>Clinical Psychology Review</i> 27:409&#8211;424.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Nayani, T. H., and A. S. David. 1996. The auditory hallucination: A phenomenological survey. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 26:177&#8211;189.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">No&#235;, A. 2004. <i>Action in Perception</i>. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">No&#235;, A. 2012. <i>Varieties of Presence</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Normand, C. L., P. R. Silverman, and S. L. Nickman. 1996. Bereaved children&#8217;s changing relationships with the deceased. In <i>Continuing Bonds: New Understandings of Grief</i>, ed. D. Klass, P. R. Silverman and S. L. Nickman, 87&#8211;111. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Oates, J. C. 2011. <i>A Widow&#8217;s Story</i>. London: Fourth Estate.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Parkes, C. M. 1996. <i>Bereavement: Studies of Grief in Adult Life</i>. 3rd ed. London: Penguin Books.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Parkes, C. M., P. Laungani, and B. Young, eds. 1997. <i>Death and Bereavement across Cultures</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Parnas, J. 2013. On psychosis: Karl Jaspers and beyond. In <i>One Century of Karl Jaspers&#8217; General Psychopathology</i>, ed. G.Stanghellini and T. Fuchs, 208&#8211;228. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Parnas, J., P. M&#248;ller, T. Kircher, J. Thalbitzer, L. Jansson, P. Handest, and D. Zahavi. 2005. EASE: Examination of anomalous self-experience. <i>Psychopathology</i> 38:236&#8211;258.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Parnas, J., and L. A. Sass. 2001. Self, solipsism, and schizophrenic delusions. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 8:101&#8211;120.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Paulik, G., J. C. Badcock, and M. Y. Maybery. 2006. The multifactorial structure of the predisposition to hallucinate and associations with anxiety, depression, and stress. <i>Personality and Individual Differences</i> 41:1067&#8211;1076.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Paulik, G., J. C. Badcock, and M. Y. Maybery. 2008. Dissociating the components of inhibitory control involved in predisposition to hallucinations. <i>Cognitive Neuropsychiatry</i> 13:33&#8211;46.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Peters, E. 1996. <i>Torture</i>. Expanded ed. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Pleasants, N. 2008. Wittgenstein, ethics and basic moral certainty. <i>Inquiry</i> 51:241&#8211;267.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Pleasants, N. 2009. Wittgenstein and basic moral certainty. <i>Philosophia</i> 37:669&#8211;679.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Prinz, J. 2004. <i>Gut Reactions: A Perceptual Theory of Emotion</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Raballo, A., and F. Lar&#248;i. 2011. Murmurs of thought: Phenomenology of hallucinatory consciousness in impending psychosis. <i>Psychosis</i> 3:163&#8211;166.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Raballo, A., and J. Parnas. 2011. The silent side of the spectrum: Schizotypy and the schizotaxic self. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 37:1017&#8211;1026.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Raballo, A., D. S&#230;bye, and J. Parnas. 2009. Looking at the schizophrenia spectrum through the prism of self-disorders: An empirical study. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 37:344&#8211;351.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Radden, J. 2009. <i>Moody Minds Distempered: Essays on Melancholy and Depression</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Radden, J. 2011. <i>On Delusion</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2005. The feeling of being. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 12 (8&#8211;10): 43&#8211;60.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2007. <i>Rethinking Commonsense Psychology: A Critique of Folk Psychology, Theory of Mind and Simulation</i>. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2008. <i>Feelings of Being: Phenomenology, Psychiatry and the Sense of Reality</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2012. Phenomenology as a form of empathy. <i>Inquiry</i> 55:473&#8211;495.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2013a. Delusional atmosphere and the sense of unreality. In <i>One Century of Karl Jaspers&#8217; General Psychopathology</i>, ed. G. Stanghellini and T. Fuchs, 229&#8211;244. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2013b. Why mood matters. In <i>Cambridge Companion to &#8220;Being and Time,&#8221;</i> ed. M. Wrathall, 157&#8211;176. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2015. <i>Experiences of Depression: A Study in Phenomenology</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. 2016. Relating to the dead: Social cognition and the phenomenology of grief. In <i>The Phenomenology of Sociality: Discovering the &#8220;We,&#8221;</i> ed. T. Szanto and D. Moran, 202&#8211;215. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Ratcliffe, M. In press. The phenomenological clarification of grief and its relevance for psychiatry. In <i>Oxford Handbook of Phenomenological Psychopathology</i>, ed. G. Stanghellini et al. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Read, J., K. Agar, N. Argyle, and V. Aderhold. 2003. Sexual and physical abuse during childhood and adulthood as predictors of hallucinations, delusions and thought disorder. <i>Psychology and Psychotherapy: Theory, Research and Practice</i> 76:1&#8211;22.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Read, J., J. van Os, A. P. Morrison, and C. A. Ross. 2005. Childhood trauma, psychosis and schizophrenia: A literature review with theoretical and clinical implications. <i>Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica</i> 112:330&#8211;350.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Reddy, V. 2008. <i>How Infants Know Minds</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Rees, W. D. 1971. The hallucinations of widowhood. <i>British Medical Journal</i> 4:37&#8211;41.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Reimar, M. 2010. Only a philosopher or a madman: Impractical delusions in philosophy and psychiatry. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 17:315&#8211;328.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Rhodes, J., and R. G. T. Gipps. 2008. Delusions, certainty and the background. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 15:295&#8211;310.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Riley, D. 2012. <i>Time Lived, Without Its Flow</i>. London: Capsule Editions.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Roessler, J. 2013. Thought insertion, self-awareness, and rationality. In <i>The Oxford Handbook of Philosophy and Psychiatry</i>, ed. K. W. M. Fulford, M. Davies, R. G. T. Gipps, G. Graham, J. Z. Sadler, G. Stanghellini, and T. Thornton, 658&#8211;672. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Romdenh-Romluc, K. 2007. Merleau-Ponty&#8217;s account of hallucination. <i>European Journal of Philosophy</i> 17:76&#8211;90.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Romme, M., and S. Escher, eds. 2012. <i>Psychosis as a Personal Crisis: An Experience-Based Approach</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Romme, M., S. Escher, J. Dillon, D. Corstens, and M. Morris. 2009. <i>Living with Voices: 50 Stories of Recovery</i>. Ross-on-Wye: PCCS Books.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Rooney, S., K. C. Murphy, F. Mulvaney, E. O&#8217;Callaghan, and C. Larkin. 1996. A comparison of voluntary and involuntary patients admitted to hospital. <i>Irish Journal of Psychological Medicine</i> 13:132&#8211;138.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sacks, O. 2012. <i>Hallucinations</i>. London: Picador.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Saks, E. R. 2007. <i>The Centre Cannot Hold: A Memoir of My Schizophrenia</i>. London: Virago.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sarbin, T. R. 1967. The concept of hallucination. <i>Journal of Personality</i> 35:359&#8211;380.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sartre, J. P. 1943/1989. <i>Being and Nothingness</i>. Trans. H. E. Barnes. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A. 1992. <i>Madness and Modernism: Insanity in the Light of Modern Art, Literature, and Thought</i>. New York: Basic Books.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A. 1994. <i>The Paradoxes of Delusion: Wittgenstein, Schreber, and the Schizophrenic Mind</i>. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A. 2001. Self and world in schizophrenia: Three classic approaches. <i>Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology</i> 8:251&#8211;270.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A. 2003. &#8220;Negative symptoms,&#8221; schizophrenia, and the self. <i>International Journal of Psychology &amp; Psychological Therapy</i> 3:153&#8211;180.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A. 2007. Contradictions of emotion in schizophrenia. <i>Cognition and Emotion</i> 21:351&#8211;390.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A. 2014a. Self-disturbance and schizophrenia: Structure, specificity, pathogenesis. <i>Schizophrenia Research</i> 152:5&#8211;11.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A. 2014b. Delusion and double bookkeeping. In <i>Karl Jaspers&#8217; Philosophy and Psychopathology</i>, ed. T. Fuchs, T. Breyer, and C. Mundt, 125&#8211;147. New York: Springer.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A., and J. P. Borda. 2015. Phenomenology and neurobiology of self disorder in schizophrenia: Secondary factors. <i>Schizophrenia Research</i> 169:474&#8211;482.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A., and G. Byrom. 2015. Phenomenological and neurocognitive perspectives on delusions: A critical overview. <i>World Psychiatry </i>14:164&#8211;173.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sass, L. A., and J. Parnas. 2007. Explaining schizophrenia: The relevance of phenomenology. In <i>Reconceiving Schizophrenia</i>, ed. M. C. Chung, K. W. M. Fulford and G. Graham, 63&#8211;95. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sbarra, D. A., and C. Hazan. 2008. Coregulation, dysregulation, self-regulation: An integrative analysis and empirical agenda for understanding adult attachment, separation, loss, and recovery. <i>Personality and Social Psychology Review</i> 12:141&#8211;167.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Scarry, E. 1985. <i>The Body in Pain: The Making and Unmaking of the World</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Schmid, H. B. 2014. Plural self-awareness. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 13:7&#8211;24.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Schutz, A. 1945. On multiple realities. <i>Philosophy and Phenomenological Research</i> 5:533&#8211;576.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Schwitzgebel, E. 2002. A phenomenal, dispositional account of belief. <i>No&#251;s</i> 36:249&#8211;275.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Schwitzgebel, E. 2008. The unreliability of na&#239;ve introspection. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 117:245&#8211;273.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sebanz, N., H. Bekkering, and G. Knoblich. 2006. Joint action: Bodies and minds moving together. <i>Trends in Cognitive Sciences</i> 10:70&#8211;76.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sebanz, N., and G. Knoblich. 2009. Prediction in joint action: What, when, and where. <i>Topics in Cognitive Science</i> 1:353&#8211;367.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sechehaye, M. 1970. <i>Autobiography of a Schizophrenic Girl</i>. New York: Signet.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Seth, A. K., K. Suzuki, and H. D. Critchley. 2012. An interoceptive predictive coding model of conscious presence. <i>Frontiers in Psychology</i> 2/395:1&#8211;16.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Silverman, P., and D. Klass. 1996. Introduction: What&#8217;s the problem? In <i>Continuing Bonds: New Understandings of Grief</i>, ed. D. Klass, P. R. Silverman and S. L. Nickman, 3&#8211;27. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Slaby, J. 2014. Emotions and the extended mind. In <i>Collective Emotions</i>, ed. C. von Scheve and M. Salmela, 32&#8211;46. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Solomon, R. C. 2004. <i>In Defense of Sentimentality</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sousa, P., and L. Swiney. 2013. Thought insertion: Abnormal sense of thought agency or thought endorsement? <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 12:637&#8211;654.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Stanghellini, G. 2004. <i>Disembodied Spirits and Deanimated Bodies: The Psychopathology of Common Sense</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Stanghellini, G., A. I. Langer, A. Ambrosini, and A. J. Cangas. 2012. Quality of hallucinatory experiences: Differences between a clinical and a non-clinical sample. <i>World Psychiatry </i>11:110&#8211;113.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Stein, E. 1917/1989. <i>On the Problem of Empathy</i>. Trans. W. Stein. Washington, DC: ICS Publications.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Stephens, G. L., and G. Graham. 2000. <i>When Self-Consciousness Breaks: Alien Voices and Inserted Thoughts</i>. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Sterelny, K. 2010. Minds: Extended or scaffolded? <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 9:465&#8211;481.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Stern, D. 1993. The role of feelings for an interpersonal self. In <i>The Perceived Self: Ecological and Interpersonal Sources of Self-Knowledge</i>, ed. U. Neisser, 205&#8211;215. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Stolorow, R. D. 2007. <i>Trauma and Human Existence: Autobiographical, Psychoanalytic and Philosophical Reflections</i>. Hove: Analytic Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Stolorow, R. D. 2011. <i>World, Affectivity, Trauma: Heidegger and Post-Cartesian Psychoanalysis</i>. London: Routledge.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Straus, E. W. 1958. Aesthesiology and hallucinations. In <i>Existence</i>, ed. R. May, E. Angel and H. F. Ellenberger, 139&#8211;169. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Strawson, G. 2004. Real intentionality. <i>Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences</i> 3:287&#8211;313.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Strawson, P. F. 1974. Imagination and perception. In P. F. Strawson, <i>Freedom and Resentment and Other Essays</i>, 50&#8211;72. London: Methuen.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Trevarthen, C. 1993. The self born in intersubjectivity: The psychology of an infant communicating. In <i>The Perceived Self: Ecological and Interpersonal Sources of Self-Knowledge</i>, ed. U. Neisser, 121&#8211;173. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Tronick, E. Z., N. Bruschweiler-Stern, A. M. Harrison, K. Lyons-Ruth, A. C. Morgan, J. P. Nahum, L. Sander, and D. N. Stern. 1998. Dyadically expanded states of consciousness and the process of therapeutic change. <i>Infant Mental Health Journal</i> 19:290&#8211;299.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Tye, M. 2002. Representationalism and the transparency of experience. <i>No&#251;s</i> 36:137&#8211;151.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Tye, M., and B. Wright. 2011. Is there a phenomenology of thought? In <i>Cognitive Phenomenology</i>, ed. T. Bayne and M. Montague, 326&#8211;344. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Upthegrove, R., M. R. Broome, K. Caldwell, J. Ives, F. Oyebode, and S. J. Wood. 2016. Understanding auditory verbal hallucinations: A systematic review of current evidence. <i>Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica</i> 133:352&#8211;367.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">van den Berg, J. H. 1966. <i>The Psychology of the Sickbed</i>. Pittsburgh: Duquesne University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">van den Berg, J. H. 1972. <i>A Different Existence</i>. Pittsburgh: Duquesne University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">van den Berg, J. H. 1982. On hallucinating: Critical-historical overview and guidelines for further study. In <i>Phenomenology and Psychiatry</i>, ed. A. J. J. de Koning and F. A. Jenner, 97&#8211;110. London: Academic Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Varese, F., E. Barkus, and R. P. Bentall. 2012. Dissociation mediates the relationship between childhood trauma and hallucination-proneness. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 42:1025&#8211;1036.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Varese, F., F. Smeets, M. Drukker, R. Lieverse, T. Lataster, W. Viechtbauer, J. Read, J. van Os, and R. P. Bentall. 2012. Childhood adversities increase the risk of psychosis: A meta-analysis of patient-control, prospective, and cross-sectional cohort studies. <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i> 38:661&#8211;671.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Vosgerau, G., and M. Voss. 2014. Authorship and control over thoughts. <i>Mind &amp; Language</i> 29:534&#8211;565.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Wakefield, J. C., and M. B. First. 2012. Validity of the bereavement exclusion to major depression: Does the empirical evidence support the proposal to eliminate the exclusion in DSM-5? <i>World Psychiatry </i>11:3&#8211;10.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Watkins, J. 2008. <i>Hearing Voices: A Common Human Experience</i>. South Yarra, Australia: Michelle Anderson.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Watson, P. W. B., P. A. Garety, J. Weinman, G. Dunn, P. E. Bebbington, D. Fowler, D. Freeman, and E. Kuipers. 2006. Emotional dysfunction in schizophrenia spectrum psychosis: The role of illness perceptions. <i>Psychological Medicine</i> 36:761&#8211;770.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Whitfield, C. L., S. R. Dube, V. J. Felitti, and R. F. Anda. 2005. Adverse childhood experiences and hallucinations. <i>Child Abuse and Neglect</i> 29:797&#8211;810.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Whybrow, P. 1997. <i>A Mood Apart</i>. London: Picador.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Wiggins, O. P., and M. A. Schwartz. 2007. Schizophrenia: A phenomenological-anthropological approach. In <i>Reconceiving Schizophrenia</i>, ed. M. C. Chung, K. W. M. Fulford and G. Graham, 113&#8211;127. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Wilkinson, S. 2000. Is &#8220;normal grief&#8221; a mental disorder? <i>Philosophical Quarterly</i> 50:289&#8211;304.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Wittgenstein, L. 1953. <i>Philosophical Investigations</i>. Trans. G. E. M. Anscombe. Oxford: Blackwell.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Wittgenstein, L. 1975. <i>On Certainty</i>. Trans. D. Paul and G. E. M. Anscombe. Oxford: Blackwell.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">World Health Organization. 1992. <i>The ICD-10 Classification of Mental and Behavioural Disorders: Clinical Descriptions and Diagnostic Guidelines</i>. Geneva: World Health Organization.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Wu, W. 2012. Explaining schizophrenia: Auditory verbal hallucination and self-monitoring. <i>Mind &amp; Language</i> 27:86&#8211;107.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Zahavi, D. 2007. Expression and empathy. In <i>Folk Psychology Re-assessed</i>, ed. D. D. Hutto and M. Ratcliffe, 25&#8211;40. Dordrecht: Springer.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Zahavi, D. 2014. <i>Self and Other: Exploring Subjectivity, Empathy, and Shame</i>. Oxford: Oxford University Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxm">Zahavi, D. 2017. Thin, thinner, thinnest. In <i>Embodiment, Enaction, and Culture: Investigating the Constitution of the Shared World</i>, ed. C. Durt, T. Fuchs, and C. Tewes, 193&#8211;199. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.</p>
			<p class="RefTxl">Zeedyk, M. S. 2006. From intersubjectivity to subjectivity: The transformative roles of emotional intimacy and imitation. <i>Infant and Child Development</i> 15:321&#8211;344.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
