<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_005" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="chap5"/></div>
			<p class="CT">5 Trauma and Trust</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In chapter 4, I argued that affective anticipation makes a substantial contribution to the sense of being in a given type of intentional state. I focused primarily on episodic, content-specific disturbances of anticipation, but added that these are usually embedded in more enveloping alterations of intentionality. This chapter shows how the latter can likewise be understood in terms of anticipation. What I will call the &#8220;global style of anticipation&#8221; amounts to a kind of habitual conviction, on which the modal structure of intentionality depends. This style is inseparable from how we experience and relate to other people in general. Hence profound, wide-ranging, and enduring changes in the interpersonal realm, of a kind that are sometimes brought about by unpleasant events involving other people, also amount to changes in the overall structure of intentionality.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I begin by introducing Karl Jaspers&#8217; classic account of the &#8220;delusional atmosphere&#8221; that often precedes symptoms such as delusions and hallucinations. In so doing, I emphasize two points. First of all, wide-ranging phenomenological changes of this nature are not limited to the contents of experience and thought. They also involve alterations in the sense of reality, something that is rooted in perceptual experience rather than consisting of however many &#8220;beliefs&#8221; or &#8220;judgments.&#8221; Second, seemingly localized, content-specific phenomena, of the kind that might be labeled &#8220;hallucinations&#8221; and/or &#8220;delusions,&#8221; are often largely symptomatic of more enveloping changes in the sense of reality. While Jaspers suggests that these changes cannot be further characterized in phenomenological terms, I reject that view. However, rather than further addressing delusional atmosphere, I turn first of all to the effects of interpersonal trauma. My reason for doing so is methodological: descriptions of traumatic experience better serve to illustrate how experience incorporates an anticipatory style, and also how that style&#8212;and with it the modal structure of experience&#8212;relates to the interpersonal. Allegedly unintelligible phenomenological disturbances are easier to make sense of once the interpersonal, relational aspects of human experience are acknowledged. (As we will see in chapter 6, this applies equally to delusional atmosphere.) </p>
			<p class="Tx">I focus on the effects of traumatic experience in adulthood, which make salient the contrast between a previously taken-for-granted sense of confidence, trust, or certainty and the unpredictable, threatening world that one comes to inhabit following traumatic events. (In chapter 6, I widen the scope of the discussion to include childhood trauma.) To formulate a more detailed account of anticipatory style and how it is altered, I introduce some themes in the later writings of Edmund Husserl, which relate both to the modal structure of intentionality and to the nature of minimal self. Finally, by drawing on my interpretation of Husserl, I make clear why the structure of intentionality depends on the interpersonal. Three central themes are then further developed in chapter 6: (a) how the modal structure of intentionality is developmentally and constitutively dependent on other people; (b) what that structure consists of, with particular emphasis on its temporal constitution; and (c) the relationship between delusional atmosphere, as described by Jaspers, and a loss of confidence, trust, or certainty that is often&#8212;but perhaps not always&#8212;interpersonally caused.</p>
			<div><a id="part1"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">5.1 </span>Delusional Atmosphere</p>
			<p class="TxNI">I suggested in chapter 4 that localized VH experiences generally occur against a backdrop of wider-ranging phenomenological changes. This is a prominent theme in phenomenological psychopathology, where there is a particular emphasis on experiences that arise during the early or prodromal stages of schizophrenia. An influential statement of the view is that of Jaspers (1963), who addresses phenomenological disturbances that both precede and fuel the onset of delusions. (As discussed in chapter 2, it has been proposed that these same disturbances are responsible for VH/TI.) Jaspers distinguishes what he calls &#8220;delusions proper&#8221; from &#8220;delusion-like ideas.&#8221; The latter, he says, emerge in understandable ways from experience, whereas the former originate in what he describes as a &#8220;<span class="I">transformation in our total awareness of reality</span>&#8221; (1963, 95).<sup><span id="n5-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-1">1</a></span></sup> According to Jaspers, a delusional belief cannot be understood in isolation from its wider phenomenological context. It is a &#8220;secondary&#8221; judgment that is symptomatic of a more &#8220;primary&#8221; delusional experience. He refers to this experience as &#8220;delusional atmosphere&#8221; or &#8220;delusional mood,&#8221; and describes it as follows:</p>
			<p class="E">Patients feel uncanny and that there is something suspicious afoot. Everything gets a <i>new meaning</i>. The environment is somehow different&#8212;not to a gross degree&#8212;perception is unaltered in itself but there is some change which envelops everything with a subtle, pervasive and strangely uncertain light. A living-room which formerly was felt as neutral or friendly now becomes dominated by some indefinable atmosphere. Something seems in the air which the patient cannot account for, a distrustful, uncomfortable, uncanny tension invades him. (Jaspers 1963, 98)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The claim is not simply that delusional atmosphere <i>causes</i> delusional beliefs to arise. Rather, primary delusions are intelligible only in the context of such an experience. By analogy, a checkmate situation would not be intelligible outside of a chess game. Thus, to understand the delusion, we also need to understand the more enveloping experience in which it is embedded. Delusional atmosphere involves some sort of perceptual change. But it is not just a change in one or more circumscribed perceptual contents, and its nature is hard to pin down. As Jaspers says, things are &#8220;somehow&#8221; different, in a way that is &#8220;indefinable.&#8221; In fact, it is seemingly paradoxical, in that &#8220;perception&#8221; is at the same time &#8220;unaltered.&#8221; In other words, if we somehow managed to compile a complete inventory of perceived properties before and after the onset of delusional atmosphere, everything would be much the same; red things would still be red, squares would still be square, and so on. </p>
			<p class="Tx">What has happened, then? Importantly, Jaspers (1963, 93) states that &#8220;the experience within which delusion takes place is that of experiencing and thinking that something is real.&#8221; By this, he does not just mean that delusions involve taking something to be real when it is not. Ordinarily, when we perceive something, perception incorporates not only a sense of <i>what it is</i> but also the sense <i>that it is</i>. It appears as <i>there</i>, <i>present</i>, and part of the same world as the perceiver. Jaspers&#8217; proposal, at least as I understand it, is that delusion-formation involves a disturbance of this ordinarily taken-for-granted sense of things as <i>there</i>; nothing presents itself in quite the same way anymore. So things look different not because their physical properties have changed but because they have a different kind of presence. In other words, the <i>sense of perceiving</i> is somehow diminished or otherwise altered. In this respect, the experience is analogous to the more localized experiences discussed in chapters 3 and 4, where something continues to &#8220;look like&#8221; the content of a thought but is no longer experienced as thought-like, given that the sense of thinking has been disrupted. However, delusional atmosphere involves a wider-ranging and less pronounced disturbance of intentionality. Another important difference is that, according to Jaspers, perceptual experience has a privileged status over other types of intentionality. It not only incorporates a grasp of distinctions such as &#8220;here/not here&#8221; and &#8220;the case/not the case&#8221;; it is also the basis for that grasp. And, as argued in chapter 2, all other forms of intentionality are dependent on these same distinctions. Without any sense of the difference between something being and not being the case, we could not distinguish believing or perceiving from imagining. The ability to distinguish between remembering, anticipating, and various other kinds of intentional state involves a further appreciation of the differences between &#8220;what was once the case,&#8221; &#8220;what might be the case,&#8221; &#8220;what will be the case,&#8221; &#8220;what has never been or never will be the case,&#8221; and so forth. And, without any appreciation of the overarching contrast between being and not being the case, more refined discriminations such as these would be equally unsustainable.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Hence, when we take something to be the case or otherwise in the form of a nonperceptual judgment or belief, the possibility of such an attitude is not autonomous of perceptual experience but dependent on a more fundamental experience of reality. We can, Jaspers says, think up as many definitions of &#8220;reality&#8221; as we want, but our thoughts about reality will never add up to a sense of what it is to be real. What is needed is &#8220;something more that this purely logical concept of reality; there is also <i>the reality we experience</i>&#8221; (1963, 93&#8211;94). Our experience incorporates a kind of bedrock (the nature of which remains unclear), in which some things are embedded and thus taken to be the case, while others are not. It is the nature of this bedrock, and its role in sustaining the modal structure of intentionality, that I seek to explore here.</p>
			<p class="Tx">How might &#8220;delusional atmosphere&#8221; (and also those delusional beliefs that arise within it) be further characterized? A consistent observation is that it is extremely difficult to describe. Jaspers (1963, 62) states that &#8220;description always proceeds by metaphor,&#8221; and goes so far as to concede that &#8220;it is impossible to express the experiences directly.&#8221; He is surely right that people struggle to communicate them. As Sass (1992, 46) observes, even highly articulate individuals &#8220;are usually reduced to helplessly repeating the same, horribly inadequate phrase: everything is strange, or everything is somehow different.&#8221; That people have difficulty articulating something does not imply that it is impossible to understand or describe. Furthermore, even if the experience cannot be understood in the first person, this does not rule out the possibility of a phenomenologically sensitive interpreter shedding some light on it. Nevertheless, Jaspers (1963, 98) insists that the &#8220;primary experiences&#8221; underlying delusions proper are forever outside the reach of phenomenological understanding:</p>
			<p class="E">If we try to get some closer understanding of these primary experiences of delusion, we soon find we cannot really appreciate these quite alien modes of experience. They remain largely incomprehensible, unreal and beyond our understanding.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">However, he does not make clear where the limits of comprehension lie. There cannot be a total embargo on phenomenological understanding, as Jaspers himself offers a description of delusional atmosphere that surely includes at least some insight into its nature. He also maintains that the transition from atmosphere to delusion is something we can make sense of. Delusional atmosphere involves a pervasive and unpleasant feeling of uncertainty. So those afflicted with it search for some &#8220;fixed point,&#8221; any fixed point, to which they can cling, and delusions are the outcome of that search. Jaspers (1963, 98) adds that this is akin to something we all do on occasion: &#8220;Whenever we find ourselves depressed, fearful or at a loss, the sudden clear consciousness of something, whether true or false, immediately has a soothing effect.&#8221; Thus, it is not the transition from experience to fully formed delusion that resists characterization but the experience itself.<sup><span id="n5-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-2">2</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Jaspers&#8217; positive account of how delusional atmosphere leads to fully formed delusions shares certain features with the account of VH/TI developed in chapters 3 and 4. In both cases, we have the articulation or linguistic crystallization of something less determinate. Along with this, there is an emphasis on how something seemingly specific depends, at least in part, on phenomenological changes that are more pervasive. However, while I attribute VH/TI to anxious anticipation, which disrupts the modal structure of intentionality, Jaspers emphasizes a felt need to relieve the tension that permeates an indeterminate and unpleasant experience. Nevertheless, the two need not be mutually exclusive. When faced with anxiety-driven VHs, as well as wider-ranging changes in the structure of experience, a person might feel a need to interpret the overall experience in a more determinate, coherent way. The delusional interpretation of experience that consequently arises cannot be a straightforward belief or system of beliefs. While it serves to make sense of, among other things, a modal disruption of experience, it is also embedded in that disruption. It therefore involves a kind of intentionality that differs from clear-cut cases of imagining or believing.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Delusional interpretations of anomalous experience are not so tightly connected with modal disruptions as internal VHs (which, I have argued, just <i>are</i> especially pronounced modal disruptions). Even so, they arise against the backdrop of wider-ranging disturbances of intentionality, which culture certain <i>kinds</i> of intentional state and shape, to some degree, their thematic contents. This is not to suggest that VHs will always go together with what Jaspers describes, just that the two are compatible and can be understood in complementary ways. Delusional interpretations of anomalous experience are possible in the absence of VHs, and vice versa. Where there are global changes in the structure of intentionality, but without heightened, localized disruptions brought about by anxious anticipation of thought content, we might expect to find delusional interpretations of experience without VHs. Where global phenomenological changes are not so pronounced, but localized disruptions are more extreme, VHs could occur in the absence of delusions.</p>
			<p class="Tx">So we have at least a sketch of how an all-enveloping shift in a perceptually grounded sense of reality might be responsible for certain so-called &#8220;delusions&#8221; and &#8220;hallucinations.&#8221; However, we can go much further than Jaspers in exploring what changes in the sense of reality consist of.<sup><span id="n5-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-3">3</a></span></sup> I have already suggested that it is helpful to conceive of them in terms of the modal structure of intentionality. I will now argue that they can be described more specifically still, in terms of anticipation. In brief, my proposal is that the experience of reality Jaspers refers to consists in a dynamic interplay of anticipation and fulfillment. All intentional states, of the form &#8220;remembering that <i>p</i>,&#8221; &#8220;perceiving that <i>q</i>,&#8221; and &#8220;imagining that <i>r</i>,&#8221; presuppose this dynamic, and changes in the modal structure of experience can be understood in terms of its disruption. It follows that these changes are, after all, comprehensible. That said, they present us with a particular interpretive challenge. For the most part, when we seek to understand others&#8217; experiences, we take for granted that they inhabit the same modal space as ourselves. It does not occur to us to question whether they believe, remember, imagine, or think in quite the ways we do, whether they experience time as we do, or whether they are rooted in the public world in the way we are. So, to understand modal disruptions, we first have to make explicit and suspend certain assumptions that are more usually made about the commonality of experience. This applies not only to delusional atmosphere but to any phenomenological difference between people that is wholly or partly attributable to differences in the modal structure of intentionality (Ratcliffe 2012).</p>
			<p class="Tx">To address the relevant phenomenology in more depth, I will leave aside delusional atmosphere for now and turn instead to kinds of enduring change in <i>how one finds oneself in the world</i> that are sometimes brought about by traumatic events. These experiences better serve to illustrate how the modal structure of experience centrally involves anticipation, and also how it is inextricable from interpersonal relations. This is because they are explicitly attributed to certain kinds of interpersonal cause, which are said to shatter a primitive form of trust. By clarifying the nature of this trust, we come to see how the modal structure of experience depends on a ubiquitous style of anticipation. Chapter 6 will then explore the similarities, differences, and relationships between delusional atmosphere and traumatic loss of trust. As we will see, the line between them is far from clear. And, in both cases, altered interpersonal experience is inseparable from a change in the modal structure of intentionality, rather than unilaterally implied by it or otherwise secondary to it. By recognizing the extent to which, and the ways in which, the integrity of experience depends on being with other people, we come to better understand something that Jaspers took to be incomprehensible.</p>
			<div><a id="part2"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">5.2 </span>Trauma</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Like delusional atmosphere, the experiential changes that follow traumatic events can be all-enveloping, profound, and difficult to describe. In both cases, what is affected includes not only however many intentional states but also something that the integrity of intentionality depends on. For now, I focus on traumatic events in adulthood and, more specifically, traumatic events that are deliberately brought about by other people. My aim is to describe a pervasive shift in how the traumatized person relates to others, something that is often referred to in terms of losing trust but can equally be conveyed in terms of losing confidence, security, or certainty. This, I will suggest, centrally involves a pervasive alteration in the sense of time, something that can be construed more specifically in terms of an overall style of anticipation.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Among other examples, I will consider the psychological effects of torture, something that involves a subversion of the trust that ordinarily underlies and regulates encounters with other people.<sup><span id="n5-4"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-4">4</a></span></sup> The two psychiatric diagnoses most often associated with the effects of torture are major depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which are difficult to tease apart when diagnosed together (Istanbul Protocol 1999, 45). As the kind of phenomenological change I seek to describe here is not exclusive to torture victims, it might seem preferable to widen the scope of the inquiry to PTSD and depression. However, the diagnostic category &#8220;PTSD&#8221; admits considerable heterogeneity, and there are also high levels of comorbidity with several other psychiatric conditions (DSM-IV-TR, American Psychiatric Association 2000, 465). The same points apply to &#8220;major depression&#8221; (Ratcliffe 2015). Furthermore, some forms of trauma, such as &#8220;war trauma,&#8221; involve a wider range of symptoms than those associated with PTSD and/or major depression (Ford 1999; Hunt 2010). The kind of experience I have in mind is better captured by the ICD-10 subcategory of &#8220;enduring personality change after catastrophic experience,&#8221; the symptoms of which include &#8220;a hostile or mistrustful attitude towards the world,&#8221; &#8220;social withdrawal,&#8221; &#8220;feelings of emptiness of hopelessness,&#8221; &#8220;a chronic feeling of being &#8216;on the edge,&#8217; as if constantly threatened,&#8221; and &#8220;estrangement&#8221; (World Health Organization 1992, 209). It is also consistent with Judith Herman&#8217;s account of what she calls &#8220;complex PTSD&#8221; or &#8220;disorders of extreme stress not otherwise specified&#8221; (Herman 1997; Ford 1999). However, it is not reliably associated with any one psychiatric diagnosis.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Given that (a) the experience is not diagnostically specific, (b) many of the relevant diagnostic categories are contested, and (c) all of these categories are also compatible with other&#8212;often subtly different&#8212;kinds of experience, I do not tie my subject matter to one or another diagnosis. Instead, I focus on the effects of a certain kind of traumatic event, where suffering is deliberately inflicted on a person by one or more others, usually with the intent to do harm. Torture is an extreme example of this, but my discussion applies equally to the potential effects of bullying, sexual assault, domestic violence, prejudicial discrimination, enforced periods of extended solitary confinement, and other forms of physical and psychological abuse.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In referring to &#8220;trauma&#8221; it is debatable whether the emphasis should be on events that are intrinsically traumatic according to some criterion or whether any event that affects a given person in the relevant way qualifies as traumatic in that instance. In this chapter, I am concerned with occurrences that would cause almost anyone great distress, and so the distinction between traumatic events and the traumatic effects of events is not so pressing.<sup><span id="n5-5"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-5">5</a></span></sup> I thus refer both to &#8220;traumatic events&#8221; and to enduring &#8220;traumatic experiences&#8221; or &#8220;experiences of trauma&#8221; that follow them. Of course, people respond in different ways to traumatic events, owing to factors that include age, gender, idiosyncratic dispositions, life history, interpersonal relationships, and how events are interpreted and reinterpreted individually, socially, and culturally. Furthermore, effects of traumatic events can be hard to distinguish from effects of wider social and cultural upheavals, as is often the case in refugee populations.<sup><span id="n5-6"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-6">6</a></span></sup> The potentially different effects of discrete traumatic events and repeated or chronic exposure should also be kept in mind (Herman 1997; Ford 1999).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Although the kind of experience addressed here does not invariably follow interpersonal trauma, there is something distinctive about the psychological effects of harm inflicted by others. As Janoff-Bulman (1992, 77) observes, being &#8220;singled out for injury &#8230; by another person &#8230; presents particular challenges to the victim&#8217;s assumptive world. &#8230; Survivors of human-induced victimizations are most apt to hold negative assumptions about themselves and the benevolence of the world.&#8221; I want to explore the nature of these &#8220;challenges&#8221; to one&#8217;s &#8220;assumptions,&#8221; and to show how a pervasive loss of the sense that people are &#8220;benevolent&#8221; implies a change in the overall structure of experience. So my approach is to demonstrate the manner in which and the extent to which the integrity of experience is vulnerable to other people, by focusing on certain extreme cases. However, the kind of phenomenological disturbance I will describe is not exclusive to such cases. Something very similar could come about through a more subtle and gradual process, involving a sequence of events or perhaps a long-term interpersonal relationship that slowly alters what a person expects from others in general. It should be added that, even in the case of an extreme event, the relevant experience is not simply an effect of the event itself. Causal relations here are complicated, and the effects of traumatic events also depend, to varying degrees, on how other people respond&#8212;at the time, immediately afterward, and in the longer term. Furthermore, as the relationship between traumatic events and subsequent phenomenological changes is a causal one, it may be that similar or identical changes arise from other causes as well, including causes of a wholly impersonal nature (a point I will return to in chapter 6). Hence traumatic events are neither necessary nor sufficient for the type of experience described here. Nevertheless, they are frequently associated with it, and there is a clear connection between the nature of the events and the nature of the experience in question. A kind of trust or confidence, consisting of a habitual style of interpersonal anticipation, is disrupted by interpersonal experiences that run counter to it.<sup><span id="n5-7"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-7">7</a></span></sup></p>
			<div><a id="part3"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">5.3 </span>Projects and Narratives</p>
			<p class="TxNI">To see how traumatic experience can alter anticipatory style, let us start with the more general observation that the experience of time is somehow affected. The Istanbul Protocol, a United Nations guide for investigating and documenting cases of torture, describes one of its long-term effects as follows:</p>
			<p class="E">The victim has a subjective feeling of having been irreparably damaged and having undergone an irreversible personality change. He or she has a sense of foreshortened future without expectation of a career, marriage, children or normal lifespan. (1999, 47)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">A &#8220;sense of foreshortened future&#8221; is also mentioned as a symptom of PTSD in the fourth edition of the <i>Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders</i> (DSM-IV-TR, American Psychiatric Association 2000, 468). In DSM-5, there is a more general statement about negative expectations concerning the future. But what, exactly, does this sense of foreshortened future or change of attitude toward the future consist of; what is it that people describe in these terms? The DSM and Istanbul Protocol do not provide any further clarification, and the cursory descriptions that they do offer are compatible with various interpretations.</p>
			<p class="Tx">On one account, a sense of foreshortened future involves a cluster of interrelated judgments about what the future most likely holds, such as &#8220;I will die young,&#8221; &#8220;I will not have a family,&#8221; and &#8220;I will not have a successful career.&#8221; These either comprise or originate in a more general evaluation of future events, the content of which is something like &#8220;Bad things are going to happen to me and good things are not going to happen to me.&#8221; In conjunction with this, negative emotions toward the future predominate: one fears that <i>p</i> and <i>q</i>, rather than hoping that <i>r</i> and <i>s</i>. If this is right, then a sense of foreshortened future is to be distinguished from an experience of time itself or, if you prefer, from an experience of temporal properties. The traumatized person continues to distinguish past, present, and future, to anticipate the arrival of future events, and to experience temporal passage. Regardless of whether she anticipates future event <i>p</i>, where <i>p</i> is evaluated negatively (most notably, her own premature death), or future event <i>q</i>, where <i>q</i> is evaluated positively, both are experienced as &#8220;future&#8221; in the same way. So a foreshortened future is a matter of <i>what</i> is anticipated, a negative evaluation of what the future holds rather than an altered sense of the future itself. However, such as interpretation would be mistaken. Instead of a change in what is anticipated, arising against a backdrop of intact temporal experience, there is an altered sense of temporal passage, of &#8220;moving forward&#8221; in time, along with a change in how past, present, future, and the relationships between them are experienced. (In chapter 6, I will suggest that posttraumatic &#8220;flashbacks&#8221; can also be understood in these terms.)</p>
			<p class="Tx">A sense that the future is bereft of positive, meaningful life events is equally a sense that one&#8217;s meaningful life is in the past, finished. So remarks to the effect that the future has nothing to offer are sometimes accompanied by the claim that one has died, that part of one has died, or that one persists but no longer &#8220;lives&#8221;: &#8220;I felt as though I&#8217;d somehow outlived myself&#8221; (Brison 2002, 9). This corresponds to a wider phenomenon that Freeman (2000, 89) has called &#8220;narrative foreclosure,&#8221; defined as &#8220;the premature conviction that one&#8217;s life story has effectively ended: there is no more to tell; there is no more that <i>can</i> be told.&#8221; It is not just that the person believes she does not have much time left. The traumatic event somehow disrupts her ongoing life story in such a way that the story ceases to be sustainable. (A &#8220;life story,&#8221; for current purposes, is a meaningful, largely coherent interpretation of past activities, relationships, achievements, and failures, which also includes a sense of where one is heading&#8212;what one&#8217;s cares, commitments, and projects currently consist of, and what one seeks to achieve.) Even if something like this is right, it does not tell us <i>why</i> a life story has collapsed. Consider three possible scenarios:</p>
			<p class="Lf">1.&#9;Loss of a life narrative is constitutive of a sense of foreshortened future.</p>
			<p class="Lm">2.&#9;Loss of a life narrative is symptomatic of a loss of projects, cares, and commitments upon which that narrative is founded.</p>
			<p class="Ll">3.&#9;Both (1) and (2) are symptomatic of losing something that is presupposed by the intelligibility of life narratives and life projects.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I doubt that a sharp distinction can be drawn between (1) and (2), as the ability to develop, sustain, and revise projects and commitments plausibly includes the ability to situate them within a cohesive, purposive, forward-looking narrative, one that is told and retold to oneself and others. I do not deny that some instances of narrative foreclosure are attributable largely or wholly to a combination of (1) and (2). Life projects and commitments depend on a wider social and cultural environment, and are therefore vulnerable to collapse in the event of changes in that environment. For example, if universities ceased to exist after some major social upheaval, a life focused around excelling as a university professor would be unsustainable. Numerous projects would collapse, along with a broader, purposive narrative into which they are integrated; a life story would be cut short. Lear (2006) describes how cultural changes can lead to loss of meaning structures that the life stories and purposive activities of whole communities depend on. This amounts to a form of narrative foreclosure, a sense that meaningful events can no longer transpire, that nothing can &#8220;happen.&#8221; However, it is to be distinguished from a superficially similar but importantly different kind of experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Interpersonal trauma can lead to narrative foreclosure even when the relevant social and cultural structures remain largely intact. Indeed, reestablishing a sense of connection with these structures has been identified as an important goal of rehabilitation (Herman 1997). Furthermore, trauma is often experienced as specific to oneself; it is something that &#8220;I&#8221; and &#8220;I alone&#8221;&#8212;rather than &#8220;we&#8221;&#8212;have endured and continue to endure. In such cases, it involves a kind of isolation from others that distinguishes it from shared meaning loss (although the distinction is certainly not clear-cut, and the kind of experience I describe can also involve shared meaning loss). In at least some cases, I suggest, what is lost is not just (1) and/or (2) but also (3). In the scenario described by Lear, an open and meaningful future remains; what is lacking is a more determinate sense of which meaningful possibilities that future includes. However, for some, even this much is lost. There is a change in the structure of temporal experience and, to be more specific, in the overall style of anticipation. We can begin to understand its nature by turning to the closely related theme of &#8220;trust.&#8221;</p>
			<div><a id="part4"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">5.4 </span>Trust</p>
			<p class="TxNI">First-person accounts of severe trauma, especially interpersonal trauma, tend to emphasize the loss of trust. There are references to this in diagnostic manuals as well. For instance, DSM-5 (American Psychiatric Association 2013, 271) refers to &#8220;exaggerated negative beliefs&#8221; such as &#8220;no one can be trusted&#8221; and &#8220;the world is completely dangerous.&#8221; But what, in this context, is &#8220;trust&#8221;? Use of the term is easily misunderstood. Trust is sometimes construed by philosophers as a three-place relation, of the form &#8220;A trusts B to do <i>z</i>.&#8221; So the philosophical task becomes that of identifying criteria with which to distinguish trusting B to do <i>z</i> from various other attitudes, such as hoping that B will do <i>z</i> and thinking that B will probably do <i>z</i>.<sup><span id="n5-8"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-8">8</a></span></sup> However, this does not exhaust the scope of trust. Three-place trust can be distinguished from two-place trust, where &#8220;A trusts B&#8221; full stop, without reference to a specific situation or action. There is also what we might call &#8220;one-place trust,&#8221; where one trusts other people in general rather than trusting a specific individual or group of individuals: one &#8220;trusts B to do <i>z</i>&#8221; because one &#8220;trusts B,&#8221; and one trusts B because one simply &#8220;trusts.&#8221; The latter might also be described as &#8220;having trust&#8221; and is thus analogous to &#8220;having hope,&#8221; something that need not relate to a particular hope content (Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 4).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Although one-place trust is seldom remarked on in mundane, everyday discourse, its loss is a conspicuous theme in first-person accounts of traumatic experience. It might be objected that the term &#8220;trust&#8221; is misleading here, as &#8220;trust&#8221; ordinarily refers to the three-place and perhaps also the two-place relation, both of which are quite different. One-place trust is at least closely related to the others: one must first <i>have trust</i> in order to trust B to do <i>z</i> or to trust B more generally. Even so, that <i>p</i> is a condition of possibility for <i>q</i> does not imply that <i>p</i> and <i>q</i> are of the same type. And nothing really hinges on whether we insist on the word &#8220;trust.&#8221; A reason for retaining it, though, is that people generally <i>do</i> refer to what I describe as a form of trust. However, a host of related terms are also at play. Jones (2004) calls it &#8220;basal security,&#8221; while Herman (1997) refers to &#8220;basic trust&#8221; and also to a sense of &#8220;safety in the world.&#8221; Am&#233;ry (1999) describes an enduring loss of &#8220;trust in the world&#8221; that he experienced after torture and subsequent incarceration in Auschwitz, but also emphasizes the broader theme of &#8220;security,&#8221; which includes an &#8220;entire field&#8221; of related words, such as &#8220;loyal, familiar, confidence, to trust, to entrust&#8221; (47).<sup><span id="n5-9"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-9">9</a></span></sup> In what follows, I will suggest that a loss of &#8220;trust&#8221; in people in general also implies a wider loss of &#8220;trust&#8221; in the world, but that both can equally be construed in terms of losing habitual confidence, losing a distinctive and seldom explicitly acknowledged form of certainty, or losing a sense of security. So I do not wish to be too prescriptive with regard to terminology.</p>
			<p class="Tx">&#8220;Having trust&#8221; might be construed as a nonphenomenological disposition to adopt certain attitudes and have certain kinds of experience. However, it also has a phenomenology in its own right; &#8220;losing trust&#8221; involves losing a habitual confidence that more usually permeates all experience, thought, and activity. Many accounts of traumatic experience support this view. The effects of trauma are sometimes described in terms of finding oneself in a different world, a world where people in general seem somehow different: &#8220;the entire world of people becomes suspect&#8221; (Janoff-Bulman 1992, 79).<sup><span id="n5-10"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-10">10</a></span></sup> Traumatic events are often said to shatter a way of experiencing the world and other people that was previously taken for granted:</p>
			<p class="E">We experience a fundamental assault on our right to live, on our personal sense of worth, and further, on our sense that the world (including people) basically supports human life. Our relationship with existence itself is shattered. Existence in this sense includes all the meaning structures that tell us we are a valued and viable part of the fabric of life. (Greening 1990, 323)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">What, exactly, does this &#8220;shattering&#8221; involve? It could be that experiencing significant suffering at the hands of another person leads to a negation of engrained beliefs such as &#8220;people do not hurt each other for the sake of causing pain,&#8221; &#8220;people will help me if I am suffering,&#8221; and so on. Then again, through our constant exposure to news stories and other sources, most of us are well aware that people seriously harm each other in all manner of ways. One option is to maintain that we do not truly believe such things until we endure them ourselves, and various references to loss of trust as the overturning of deeply held &#8220;assumptions&#8221; lend themselves to that interpretation. For example, Herman (1997, 51) states that &#8220;traumatic events destroy the victim&#8217;s fundamental assumptions about the safety of the world,&#8221; and Brison (2002, 26) describes how interpersonal trauma &#8220;undermined my most fundamental assumptions about the world.&#8221; An explicitly cognitive approach, which construes these assumptions as &#8220;cognitive schemas&#8221; or fundamental beliefs, is adopted by Janoff-Bulman (1992, 5&#8211;6), who identifies three such beliefs as central to one-place trust: &#8220;the world is benevolent&#8221;; &#8220;the world is meaningful&#8221;; and &#8220;the self is worthy.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, it seems implausible to insist on something like this: B thinks that B believes that <i>p</i>, when in fact B believes that not <i>p</i> until B suffers greatly at the hands of other people and really does come to believe that <i>p</i>. It could be argued that the term &#8220;belief&#8221; encompasses more than one type of attitude (a position I will endorse in chapter 8). So one <i>a</i>-believes that <i>p</i> but later comes to <i>b</i>-believe it too.<sup><span id="n5-11"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-11">11</a></span></sup> Another option is to note that the belief &#8220;People have done <i>p</i> to other people and will do so again&#8221; is distinct from &#8220;Someone might do <i>p</i> to a particular person, me.&#8221; Hence the deep-rooted belief that is overturned is of the form &#8220;<span class="I">p</span> won&#8217;t (or even can&#8217;t) happen to me.&#8221; One, the other, or both might well be right, but it would be a mistake to construe loss of one-place trust solely or even principally in these terms. Although it clearly does involve changes in attitude toward oneself, other people, and the world more generally, it also involves something else.<sup><span id="n5-12"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-12">12</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">What is eroded is a habitual, nonpropositional <i>style of anticipation</i>, which cannot be exhaustively characterized in terms of however many propositional attitudes of the form &#8220;B believes that <i>p</i>.&#8221; It is something that could be described in terms of the negation of any number of different propositions, including &#8220;The world is safe,&#8221; &#8220;Others will help me when I am in trouble,&#8221; &#8220;People generally mean well,&#8221; &#8220;Good things will happen in the future,&#8221; &#8220;I will live a long time,&#8221; &#8220;There are worthwhile projects,&#8221; &#8220;I am worthy,&#8221; and &#8220;I have friends.&#8221; However, such utterances do not just convey distinct, thematically related belief contents. They are also used to express a unitary and more enveloping phenomenological change, the nature of which can be made clearer by emphasizing the theme of unpredictability:</p>
			<p class="E">Massive deconstruction of the absolutisms of everyday life exposes the inescapable contingency of existence on a universe that is random and unpredictable and in which no safety or continuity of being can be assured. (Stolorow 2007, 16)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">A previously ubiquitous anticipatory style is lost, rather than anticipation pure and simple. The traumatized person may retain a consistent style of anticipation, but one that is quite different from before. Rather than anticipating things in general with a kind of unthinking confidence, she constantly anticipates something dreadful, the nature and arrival-time of which are variably indeterminate. And, where other people were previously taken for granted as dependable and predictable (at least for the most part), they now appear threatening and unpredictable. Many of us anticipate most things in the guise of habitual certainty. It does not occur to us that we will be deliberately struck by a car as we walk to the shop to buy milk or that we will be assaulted by the stranger we sit next to on the train. This is not to suggest that we naively trust everybody or feel safe all the time, regardless of circumstances. The point is that, when we do feel unsafe in a certain situation or explicitly distrust a particular person, this involves a departure from our default attitude.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Our sense of security can be so engrained that we are oblivious to it. Indeed, the more at home we are in the world, the less aware we are that <i>feeling at home in the world </i>is even part of our experience (Bernstein 2011; Baier 1986). It is not itself an object of experience but something that operates as a backdrop to our perceiving that <i>p</i>, thinking that <i>q</i>, or acting in order to achieve <i>r</i>. To lose it is not just to endorse one set of evaluative judgments over another. It is more akin to losses of practical confidence that all of us feel on occasion, in relation to one or another performance. Suppose, for instance, one starts to feel that one can no longer teach well. Granted, evaluative judgments have a role to play, but loss of confidence need not originate in explicit judgments about one&#8217;s performance, and its nature is not exhausted by however many judgments. The lecture room somehow <i>looks</i> different&#8212;daunting, oppressive, unpredictable, uncontrollable. Along with this, one&#8217;s actions lack their more usual fluidity and one&#8217;s words their spontaneity. The experience centrally involves feeling unable to engage in a habitual, practical performance. And loss of confidence can remain resistant to change even when one explicitly endorses propositions such as &#8220;I am a good teacher.&#8221; Experiences like this can be fairly circumscribed, relating primarily to certain situations. However, human experience also has an all-enveloping <i>style</i> of anticipation, and this is what is disrupted in trauma; there is a global change in what is anticipated from other people and, by implication, from the world in general.</p>
			<div><a id="part5"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">5.5 </span>Habitual Certainty</p>
			<p class="TxNI">To further clarify what a style of anticipation consists of and how it relates to the structure of intentionality, I will now draw on some themes in the writings of Edmund Husserl. Some of Husserl&#8217;s later work points the way toward a detailed analysis of the relationships between style of anticipation, the modal structure of intentionality, and our most primitive sense of self. In addition, it can help us to see why the structure of experience depends on interpersonal and social relations. I will suggest that Husserl&#8217;s account is consistent with and further illuminates the nature of hard-to-describe phenomenological disturbances, such as those associated with trauma. In turn, its applicability to these experiences serves to corroborate it and to indicate ways of further developing it.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of central concern here is how we experience <i>the possible</i>. Husserl proposes that perceptual experience of an entity is imbued with possibilities, some of which take the more specific form of anticipation. This is not to suggest that we can <i>see</i> possibilities in the way we see chairs and tables. Rather, perception of something as present includes a sense of the possible, which partly constitutes our appreciation of <i>what that entity is</i> and also our appreciation <i>that it is</i>. So possibilities are not added to our experience of what is &#8220;here, now&#8221;; they are integral to it. These possibilities are not experienced in isolation from one another. The claim is that perceptual experience of a given entity is inextricable from a characteristic <i>horizon</i> of possibilities, a structured system of potentialities for ongoing perceptual access:</p>
			<p class="E">Everywhere, apprehension includes in itself, by the mediation of a &#8220;sense,&#8221; empty horizons of &#8220;possible perceptions&#8221;; thus I can, at any given time, enter into a system of possible and, if I follow them up, actual, perceptual nexuses. (Husserl 1952/1989, &#167;15, p. 42)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">An entity&#8217;s &#8220;horizon&#8221; is intersensory in structure. When we perceive something through one sense, it also offers us possibilities for accessing it through other sensory modalities (1952/1989, &#167;18, p. 75). For example, a cup might appear visually as something you could reach out and touch. Importantly, the horizonal structure of experience also involves an appreciation of entities as perceptually available to other people. According to Husserl (e.g.,1952/1989, &#167;18, pp. 86&#8211;87), the phenomenological difference between encountering something as <i>really there</i>, independent of my own perspective on it, and experiencing it as self-generated is constituted by a sense of whether or not it is actually or potentially accessible to others. The horizonal structure of experience is also inextricable from the feeling (as opposed to the felt) body&#8212;the body is not merely an object of perception; it is also an organ of perception, <i>through which</i> we experience our surroundings. To be more specific, an appreciation of how to gain additional perceptual access to an entity is also an awareness of how to move in order to actualize perceptual possibilities. Hence the possibilities we experience as integral to the environment are, at the same time, felt bodily dispositions.<sup><span id="n5-13"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-13">13</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">If this much is accepted, we might wonder whether the horizonal structure of experience is limited to potential <i>perceptions </i>and associated bodily dispositions. I have argued elsewhere that we should conceive of it in a more encompassing and elaborate way, to include possibilities for goal-directed action and the many, subtly different kinds of <i>significant</i> possibility that relate, in different ways, to our activities. For instance, something might appear relevant insofar as it is urgently required in the context of a project, obstructs one&#8217;s activities, appears immediately enticing, or threatens. These different kinds of possibility also implicate the feeling body in different ways. For instance, the experience of something as immediately threatening and certain to occur is bound up with dispositions to retreat from it, to hide, or to protect oneself, whereas the sight of a cold drink when very thirsty on a hot day exerts a bodily pull&#8212;one feels drawn toward the object. It can be added that other people offer a range of further possibilities, from emotional communion to specifically personal forms of threat. I have further argued that certain kinds of experience are best interpreted in terms of changes in the <i>types</i> of possibility that are phenomenologically accessible to a person. For instance, it might be that nothing appears tangible or practically accessible anymore, or that other people in general cease to offer the potential for certain kinds of interpersonal connection (Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 2).</p>
			<p class="Tx">For current purposes, the emphasis is more specifically on experiences of possibility that take the form of immediate anticipation, the sense that something will happen shortly, will probably happen, might happen, might not happen, or might not unfold as previously anticipated. Many experienced possibilities are to be understood in this way. However, it is not clear that all of them are. For instance, some interpersonal possibilities arguably take the form, &#8220;If someone <i>were</i> there now, that person would also be able to see this.&#8221; Something similar may also apply to certain impersonal possibilities: &#8220;If I were to turn this cup around, then I would see something along the lines of <i>p</i>, even though I do not anticipate turning the cup around and, by implication, do not anticipate seeing <i>p</i>.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">Experiences of anticipation are to be construed in a dynamic way: as possibilities are actualized (through one&#8217;s own actions, the actions of others, and/or impersonal events), other possibilities are revealed, and so on. Husserl suggests that, for the most part, this process proceeds in a way that is &#8220;unobstructed.&#8221; In other words, perceptual expectations are fulfilled, generating further expectations, which are themselves fulfilled, facilitating an experience of something that is both consistent and increasingly specific: a &#8220;progressive fulfilment of expectations, a fulfilment which is at the same time always an ever more precise determination of the object&#8221; (Husserl 1948/1973, &#167;21, p. 87). We do not merely anticipate things; we are also <i>drawn into</i> situations, solicited to actualize certain possibilities, in ways that yield increasingly refined perceptions of entities. Some experienced possibilities entice us and cannot be extricated from a felt bodily inclination to actualize them. There is, as Husserl says, a &#8220;striving &#8216;to come ever closer&#8217; to the object&#8221; that belongs to &#8220;normal perception,&#8221; as well as a sense of &#8220;satisfaction&#8221; as it progresses and our perceptual access to the object is enhanced (1948/1973, &#167;20, pp. 85&#8211;86).<sup><span id="n5-14"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-14">14</a></span></sup> Hence perceptual experience is riddled with practically engaged anticipation.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Should we think of possibility and, more specifically, anticipation, in terms of the content of the experience or its attitudinal phenomenology? One option is to maintain that what we anticipate from an entity is integral to our experience <i>of it</i> and thus enriches experiential content. It could be added that, when we set aside experiential content and seek out a wholly separate experience of anticipation, there is nothing to be found&#8212;experience is transparent. So, in response to the argument of chapters 3 and 4, one might object that there is, after all, nothing more to the sense of being in a given type of intentional state than its characteristic content. The problem is just that the scope of content has been understated and that there has been a failure to acknowledge the possibility of conflict between different types&#8212;or perhaps different aspects&#8212;of content, including what we anticipate from things. This way of thinking presupposes, from the outset, a neat separation between intentional attitude and content. We first split them off from each other. Then we describe experiential content. Then we set aside anything that is attributable to content, ask what is left of the attitude, and conclude that there is nothing to be found. However, the sense of the possible described by Husserl does not respect an attitude&#8211;content distinction; it cuts across it. The possibilities we experience as integral to entities in the surrounding environment are at the same time felt as bodily dispositions, as phenomenologically accessible movement tendencies of various kinds. When an entity says &#8220;Turn me around to reveal my hidden side,&#8221; we feel drawn toward it in a specific way. It is not that we experience the possibilities and also the bodily dispositions; they are one and the same thing. The relevant bodily dispositions are not themselves objects of experience, at least not ordinarily. It is through these dispositions that we experience possibilities as inherent in things.<sup><span id="n5-15"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-15">15</a></span></sup> Felt dispositions have a dual-aspect structure; they manifest themselves as possibilities that are integral to what we experience, and they contribute, at the same time, to the experience of encountering it in a given way. The latter contribution, I will show, is central to the sense of being in one or another type of intentional state with respect to a given entity.</p>
			<p class="Tx">To appreciate the relevance of Husserl&#8217;s work to the phenomenology of trauma and the modal structure of intentionality, we need to make clear what form the experience of anticipation ordinarily takes. Husserl maintains that there is a sense of confidence or &#8220;certainty&#8221; inherent in perceptual activity. We do not just recognize something as possible; we anticipate it with such confidence that no alternatives present themselves. What we anticipate is variably determinate, and so confident anticipation does accommodate what he calls &#8220;open&#8221; uncertainty. For example, when I reach to turn around an object, such as a cup or an ornament, what I anticipate might be &#8220;a side with the same shape and the same color,&#8221; or it might be something less specific, such as &#8220;the currently unseen side of a solid, three-dimensional object of an approximate size.&#8221; When perception proceeds confidently, the resolution of open uncertainty takes the form of filling in the blanks, yielding a more specific appreciation of the object and its properties that is consistent with what was anticipated (Husserl 1948/1973, &#167;21, pp. 96&#8211;98). Thus, a habitual, bodily confidence or sense of certainty, which allows for varying degrees of indeterminacy, is what we might call the &#8220;default mode&#8221; of anticipation: &#8220;Original, normal perception has the primordial mode, &#8216;being valid simpliciter&#8217;; this is what we call straightforward, na&#239;ve certainty. The appearing object is there in uncontested and unbroken certainty&#8221; (Husserl 2001, &#167;8, p. 75).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Husserl contrasts confident anticipation with what he calls &#8220;problematic&#8221; uncertainty. Here, what is anticipated is not just indeterminate; there is also an experience of &#8220;doubt,&#8221; which involves conflicting systems of anticipation and eventual resolution in favor of one system or the other. In unproblematic cases, it is not that all potentially conflicting possibilities are ruled out. Rather, they are not salient to begin with and do not interfere with the sense that a certain possibility will inevitably be actualized: &#8220;Nothing speaks in favour of them in this given moment; the expectations are straightforward certainties that are not inhibited&#8221; (2001, &#167;13, p. 91). In the problematic case, however, alternative possibilities are phenomenologically conspicuous. Take the example of seeing a figure in a shop window and being unsure whether it is a man or a mannequin, something that involves two competing systems of anticipation:</p>
			<p class="E">Perhaps we see a figure standing in a store window, something which at first we take to be a real man, perhaps an employee working there. Then, however, we become hesitant and ask ourselves whether it is not just a mere mannequin. With closer observation, the doubt can be resolved in favour of one side or the other, but there can also be a period of hesitation during which there is doubt whether it is a man or a mannequin. (Husserl 1948/1973, &#167;21, p. 92)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In such cases, there is a perceptual experience of doubt, where an original system of anticipation is undermined by an alternative system: &#8220;the visual appearance, the spatial form imbued with color, was until now provided with a halo of anticipatory intentions which gave the sense &#8216;human body&#8217; and, in general, &#8216;man&#8217;; now there is superposed on it the sense &#8216;clothed mannequin&#8217;&#8221; (Husserl 1948/1973, &#167;21, p. 92). Problematic uncertainty can also take a less determinate form, along the lines of &#8220;this might turn out to be different from what I am anticipating&#8221;; &#8220;things might not be quite as they seem.&#8221; It does not have to involve a more specifically focused doubt, where the original system of anticipation competes with an equally determinate alternative. Husserl adds that systems of expectation can be &#8220;disappointed&#8221; rather than &#8220;fulfilled,&#8221; regardless of whether or not disappointment was anticipated in the guise of problematic uncertainty. Hence we can distinguish different modes of anticipation (certainty, doubt, and degrees of problematic uncertainty) and disappointment (the various ways in which something can appear not quite as expected: it might have different properties, turn out to be a different kind of entity, or be present or absent in a way that conflicts with expectation).</p>
			<p class="Tx">According to Husserl, the perceptual experience of disappointment, of something turning out to be other than anticipated, includes a recognition of <i>negation</i>. Moreover, it constitutes our most fundamental grasp of the phenomenon of negation. Our sense of what it is for something to not be the case originates not in propositional thought but in the experience of negated anticipation. This experience has an essentially temporal structure, involving confident anticipation, perhaps followed by problematic uncertainty, and finally by a lack of fulfillment. When the original expectation is overridden and updated, an awareness is retained of it <i>as</i> something that has been displaced. The anomaly need not be wholly surprising, as it may have been anticipated to some extent and with varying degrees of determinacy. The sense of negation is more a matter of its incongruity or inconsistency with a wider system of anticipation that preceded it. So, if Husserl is right, the &#8220;original phenomenon of negation&#8221; is embedded in perceptual experience. If we did not experience negation perceptually, we would not be able to form judgments as to whether something is or is not the case, as we would lack all sense of the relevant distinction: &#8220;<span class="I">It thus appears that negation is not first the business of the act of predicative judgment but that in its original form it already appears in the prepredicative sphere of receptive experience</span>&#8221; (1948/1973, &#167;21, p. 90).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Importantly, when we experience something as negated, only part of the anticipation-fulfillment pattern is disrupted. Experience as a whole continues to be structured by confident, unproblematic anticipation: &#8220;In order for a unity of an intentional process to be maintained &#8230; a certain measure of thoroughgoing fulfilment must be presupposed under all circumstances&#8221; (Husserl 2001, &#167;6, p. 67). What is crucial, for current purposes, is Husserl&#8217;s observation that it is only against a nonlocalized, dynamic backdrop of confident anticipation and fulfillment that we are able to encounter a localized occurrence as anomalous. To be anomalous is to stand out against something that remains more generally cohesive. So Husserl does not conceive of habitual certainty, problematic uncertainty, and specifically focused doubt simply as different modes of anticipation, otherwise on a par with each other; certainty is the &#8220;primal mode&#8221; (1948/1973, &#167;21, p. 100). He adds that this nonlocalized sense of certainty is not something we acquire within a pregiven experiential world. It is itself our most fundamental sense of being rooted in a world, in a realm where things are able to show up as potentially or actually discrepant in one or another way: &#8220;For us the universal synthesis of harmonizing intentional syntheses corresponds to &#8216;the&#8217; world, and belonging to it is a universal belief-certainty&#8221; (2001, &#167;23, p. 146).</p>
			<p class="Tx">If this is right, then a form of certainty is presupposed by the modalities of intentionality. Taking something or other as &#8220;not&#8221; presupposes a wider context of practical and perceptual confidence. Importantly, this applies equally to an explicit sense that something &#8220;is.&#8221; Acceptance of <i>p</i> rather than <i>not p</i> only makes sense given the possibility of doubt and its resolution in favor of the original rather than the competing system of anticipation. So this is not a point about what the specific <i>content</i> of perceptual experience must include or whether some contents are more fundamental than others. The claim is that, for us to encounter things&#8212;regardless of what they might be&#8212;in one or another way, experience must have a global <i>form</i>, a temporal structure whereby coherently organized possibilities are actualized in line with confident anticipation. Husserl notes that perceptual experience and nonperceptual belief share the same modal structure. Belief can involve taking something to be the case or not the case, possible or doubtful, and these same modalities are available to us in perceptual experience. It is, he says, &#8220;no coincidence that perception and judgment have these modalities in common&#8221; (2001, &#167;6, p. 67). The reason is that the modal structure of belief is parasitic on the anticipation-fulfillment structure of perception. The differences between taking something to be the case, not the case, possible, or doubtful are intelligible to us only because perceptual experience supplies us with a sense of these alternatives as distinct from one another:</p>
			<p class="Ef">It is not only the original phenomenon of negation which is already to be found in the prepredicative sphere; the so-called <i>modalities</i> of judgment, which constitute a central element of traditional formal logic, also have their origin and their foundation in the occurrences of prepredicative experience. </p>
			<p class="El">&#8230; We understand <i>modalizations as obstructions in the procession of the original perceptual interest</i>. Such an elucidation of the origin reveals that the <i>simplest certainty of belief</i> is the <i>primal form</i> and that all other phenomena, such as negation, consciousness of possibility, restoration of certainty by affirmation or denial, result only from the modalization of this primal form and are not juxtaposed, since they are not on the same level. (Husserl 1948/1973, &#167;21, pp. 91, 100&#8211;101)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">As I understand Husserl, he seeks to generalize from the case of belief to other types of intentional state. And, even if he does not, this direction is implied by his analysis. To be able to distinguish the various types of intentional state from each other, we must have a sense of reality that includes the relevant modal distinctions (Ratcliffe 2015). Therefore, all kinds of intentionality depend (in ways that of course require considerable further elucidation) on a background of practical, habitual certainty, without which a grasp of these distinctions could not be sustained. To be more specific, I will argue in chapter 6 that different kinds of experience, such as imagining and remembering, incorporate different patterns of anticipation and fulfillment. Our sense of which type of intentional state we are in is largely constituted by these patterns and by a recognition of them <i>as</i> departures from the anticipation-fulfillment pattern of perceptual experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">So, although Husserl describes presupposed certainty as a kind of &#8220;belief,&#8221; what he is referring to does not involve taking something to be the case in the way we do when we perceive a cup in front of us or believe that the Eiffel Tower is in Paris. Our grasp of what it is for something to be present or not present, and, more generally, for it to be the case or not the case, presupposes a habitual style of immersion in a situation. This immersion is not the object of an intentional state and neither is it an intentional attitude. It is something that the ability to direct oneself toward an object, via belief or any other kind of attitude, presupposes. We can now see what is meant by the &#8220;global style of anticipation.&#8221; I conceive of this in much the same way as Merleau-Ponty, who, drawing on Husserl, writes of a &#8220;style&#8221; that shapes all perception and thought, a &#8220;universal style of all possible perceptions&#8221; (Merleau-Ponty 1964, 16).<sup><span id="n5-16"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-16">16</a></span></sup> Our sense of belonging to a world is not a matter of perceiving some <i>thing</i> or adopting the belief that some entity exists. It is not an attitude with content at all, but a habitual way of anticipating, a temporal pattern that pervades experience:</p>
			<p class="E">The natural world is the horizon of all horizons, and the style of all styles, which ensures my experiences have a given, not a willed, unity beneath all of the ruptures of my personal and historical life; the counterpart of the natural world is the given, general, and pre-personal existence in me of my sensory functions, which is where we discovered the definition of the body. (Merleau-Ponty 1945/2012, 345)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Experiencing something as <i>there</i> involves its integration into this style, and the sense of confidence or certainty constituted by the dynamic actualization of possibility just <i>is</i> our most fundamental appreciation of being situated in a world.<sup><span id="n5-17"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-17">17</a></span></sup> There is nothing beyond or before it that we can appeal to in order to secure our convictions, to convince ourselves that something is the case. This has the interesting implication that if we could somehow actualize all possibilities, comprehend everything as it is in its entirety, without anticipating anything more in the guise of open or problematic uncertainty, we would not succeed in comprehending reality as a whole. Instead, we would be completely uprooted from the very temporal dynamic in relation to which taking something to be the case, taking it to be <i>real</i>, is an intelligible possibility. Comprehending something in that way would involve deprivation of the modal structure that is needed to comprehend anything at all. Thus a &#8220;view from nowhere,&#8221; at least if conceived of in this manner, is plain incoherent. As Merleau-Ponty (1945/2012, 347) puts it:</p>
			<p class="E">If spatio-temporal horizons could (even ideally) be made explicit and if the world could be conceived from nowhere, then nothing would exist. I would survey the world from above, and far from all places and times suddenly becoming real, they would in fact cease to be real because I would not inhabit any of them and I would be nowhere engaged. If I am all and everywhere, then I am never and nowhere.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">To be taken as real, as the case, is to be integrated into a wider-ranging style of experience; there is nothing more to ask for. So, phenomenologically speaking, the &#8220;is&#8221; of existence is equivocal. Our appreciation of being immersed in a world does not rest upon a deeply entrenched proposition concerning the existence of some entity or upon some kind of distinctive sensory content. It consists in a distinctive pattern of anticipation and fulfillment, something that is inseparable from habitual, bodily immersion in the world. This kind of certainty cannot be coherently doubted in propositional form, as it is presupposed by the intelligibility of doubt.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It is worth noting how Husserl&#8217;s position complements Jaspers&#8217; remarks about the sense of reality. Jaspers similarly indicates that belief is possible only if one is already experientially rooted in a world: &#8220;conceptual reality carries conviction only if a kind of presence is experienced, provided by reality itself.&#8221; Our grasp of reality, he says, is grounded in &#8220;the practice of living.&#8221; So we need to distinguish an &#8220;<span class="I">immediate certainty of reality</span>&#8221; from a &#8220;<span class="I">reality-judgment</span>&#8221; that depends on it (1963, 93&#8211;94). What Husserl says is also consistent with descriptions of traumatic experience and can, I suggest, serve to further illuminate its nature. However, a small addition to his account is first required. In chapter 4, I distinguished (a) the content of what is anticipated, which may be more or less determinate, from (b) the mode of anticipation, which may be doubt or uncertainty but is more usually certainty. Both are covered by Husserl&#8217;s account. However, what Husserl does not acknowledge is (c) the <i>affective</i> style of anticipation, and it is here that his discussion needs to be supplemented. When we anticipate events that matter to us in one or another way, we might do so with excitement, hope, curiosity, fear, panic, or dread. Habitual certainty has its own affective style: a confident, comfortable engagement with what is coming next, something that is incompatible with fearing or dreading it. Even when we dread <i>p</i> (regardless of whether <i>p</i> is anticipated in the mode of certainty, problematic uncertainty, or doubt), we generally do so within a wider context of confidence, in relation to which <i>p</i> is experienced as an anomaly or disruption.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Were this wider style of anticipation to break down entirely, we could not anticipate localized conflicts in the modes of problematic uncertainty or doubt. The result would be a complete loss of experiential structure. What, though, if the anticipatory structure of experience were altered in some way, rather than altogether lost? This is what traumatic loss of one-place trust involves. A confident style of anticipation gives way to pervasive and nonlocalized uncertainty and doubt, where a sense of potential danger predominates. We can thus begin to see why a traumatized person might describe herself as living in a different world. When the realization of some indeterminate threat is anticipated, things <i>look</i> foreboding. And when the overall style of anticipation takes this form, a sense of being confidently immersed in the world, at home in it, is lost. One feels uprooted; the world as a whole appears strangely and disturbingly different. With this, there is at least some degree of modal change. The overall style of experience, in which the distinction between being the case and not being the case is embedded, has shifted. Even though it does not break down entirely, things no longer seem the case or not the case in quite the same way they did before.</p>
			<p class="Tx">At this point, one might object that a loss of trust arising due to interpersonal trauma specifically concerns what is expected from other people, rather than from the world as a whole. So, even if other people in general seem menacing, unpredictable, and no longer dependable, the impersonal environment survives intact. But, as the remainder of this chapter will show, that is not the case&#8212;the effects of losing interpersonal trust are far more pervasive. I acknowledge that loss of confidence or one-place trust can take a number of more specific forms. When faced with chronic illness, one&#8217;s bodily experience can involve a pervasive feeling of what Carel (2013) calls &#8220;bodily doubt&#8221;; one ceases to habitually trust in various bodily capacities and capabilities, and the default style of anticipation becomes that of anxious uncertainty. Other losses of trust, confidence, or certainty are focused more so on the impersonal world. After an accident or natural disaster, an environment that once seemed dependable may seem dangerous and unpredictable. Loss of trust can also concern one&#8217;s own abilities, perhaps even the reliability and coherence of one&#8217;s own thinking. Hence it might appear that the term &#8220;one-place trust&#8221; is misleading. Given that it can have different emphases, &#8220;trust in <i>p</i>,&#8221; &#8220;trust in <i>q</i>,&#8221; and so on, it actually falls under the category &#8220;two-place trust.&#8221; However, &#8220;having trust in the context of domain <i>p</i>&#8221; is to be distinguished from &#8220;trusting <i>p</i>.&#8221; The former is not a relation of trusting but a precondition for one or another kind of trust relation. So, although one-place trust has more circumscribed domains, it is not itself an attitude toward something.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Another concern that might be raised is that the term &#8220;trust&#8221; properly applies only to the interpersonal domain and that its extension to other forms of practical confidence is inappropriate. In response, it should be noted that the term &#8220;trust&#8221; is sometimes used in the more permissive way, and that victims of trauma often refer to a wider-ranging &#8220;loss of trust in the world.&#8221; Furthermore, the relevant experiences are structurally similar, with all of them involving changes in the anticipation-fulfillment structure of experience. Even so, I suggest that having trust in other people has a kind of primacy over others forms of one-place trust. This is because its loss entails a wider-ranging loss of confidence in oneself, one&#8217;s abilities, and one&#8217;s surroundings. We might conceive of a nonsocial creature, for which the anticipatory structure of experience (if we grant it a capacity for experience) is largely independent of what it anticipates from conspecifics. But it is a contingent fact that human beings are not like that. Human social development involves becoming increasingly immersed in a shared world, where what we anticipate from the world in general cannot be disentangled from our expectations regarding other people. The overall coherence of a system of anticipation is, in effect, <i>entrusted </i>to others. In pursuing our projects, we depend on others in all manner of ways&#8212;they assist us, advise us, work alongside us, share our goals, commission projects, and act as suppliers and recipients. In walking around a city center, we expect and rely on others to respect traffic lights, to maintain safe public transport systems, to sell food that is not poisoned, and not to attack us at random. </p>
			<p class="Tx">We thus take for granted that most people will abide by a plethora of social norms, which shape to a substantial degree what we anticipate from them and from the social environment more generally. Many of the things we anticipate also depend, more specifically, on our relations with particular individuals, such as partners, friends, and work colleagues. Even when we are not directly concerned with the actual or potential actions of however many people, what we anticipate from the impersonal environment continues to depend on interpersonal expectations. Trusting that a device will work properly or that your train or plane will not crash is incompatible with experiencing people in general, including designers and operators, as unpredictable and menacing. It follows that any change in what is anticipated from other people will envelop experience more generally. Even when walking in an untouched wilderness, there remains the possibility of encountering others and of anticipating such encounters in one or another way. Thus, when interpersonal relatedness is profoundly disrupted, so is one&#8217;s confidence in the wider world.</p>
			<p class="Tx">We can now see how interpersonal trauma might bring about a change in the overall structure of experience. Traumatic events can elicit a shift in the global style of anticipation. What makes interpersonal trauma distinctive is the <i>subversion</i> of interpersonal trust it involves. The other person recognizes one&#8217;s vulnerability and responds to it by deliberately inflicting harm. For instance, the aim of torture has been described as the complete psychological destruction of a person: &#8220;The torturer attempts to destroy a victim&#8217;s sense of being grounded in a family and society as a human being with dreams, hopes and aspirations for the future&#8221; (Istanbul Protocol 1999, 45). It is a &#8220;calculated assault on human dignity,&#8221; more so than an attempt to extract information (Amnesty International, 1986, 172).<sup><span id="n5-18"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-18">18</a></span></sup> The victim is confronted by a kind of interpersonal relation that exploits her vulnerability in an extreme way. Am&#233;ry (1999, 29) describes how, when one is hurt, there is ordinarily an &#8220;expectation of help&#8221; from others, something that is engrained from early childhood. Torture therefore involves a radical conflict with habitual styles of interpersonal anticipation. It is not just that others fail to offer help; they are themselves the agents of harm, and there is nobody else to intervene on one&#8217;s behalf. Furthermore, many forms of torture involve taking familiar, homely items that would more usually be encountered in a confident, purposive way, and using them to cause harm. For instance, household utensils are sometimes used to inflict pain (Scarry 1985, 40&#8211;41). So it is not just that an interpersonal situation fails to offer what is habitually anticipated; it offers something utterly opposed to it.<sup><span id="n5-19"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-19">19</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Given the extent to which our expectations in general depend on what we expect from others, a loss of trust in other people (of the kind that can be brought about by events that challenge or subvert what was previously taken for granted) permeates everything. Without the assumption that others will offer assistance in moments of need, the impersonal environment also seems less safe. What was once anticipated with habitual confidence is now anticipated with uncertainty and dread:</p>
			<p class="E">When you think about everything on a deep level &#8230; you see that nothing in life follows any rules; you can&#8217;t rely on anything to be always true, ever. Nothing is constant and nothing is reliable, so nothing is &#8220;safe&#8221; to just simply believe in and be done with it. You are constantly looking at everything around you and re-assessing it, re-evaluating it as you get new information about it.<sup><span id="n5-20"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-20">20</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="TxNI">The point applies to trust in one&#8217;s own abilities as well, even to the reliability of one&#8217;s own judgments and thought processes. More usually, when there is doubt we turn to others for reassurance and support. Importantly, when trust in the impersonal environment or in one&#8217;s own abilities is damaged, trusting relations with others can help one to negotiate what has happened and move on. They establish a sense of contingency, opening up new possibilities and facilitating new interpretations. When interpersonal trust is lost, the prospect of entering into an interpersonal process that might otherwise have nurtured changes in anticipatory style is lost along with it. As Laub (2001, xv) observes,</p>
			<p class="E">The survivor of torture feels completely alone. He&#8212;or she&#8212;no longer believes in the very possibility of human communication; he envisages no one who will be present to him and for him if he returns in his mind to the places of horror, humiliation, and grief from which he barely emerged and which continue to haunt him.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Without any anticipation of self-transformative interpersonal relations, one&#8217;s predicament seems inescapable; the world no longer offers anything else. To this, we can add that almost all projects, cares, and concerns are sustained interpersonally. When others in general cease to be dependable, when the world is unsafe and one&#8217;s own abilities are in doubt, projects collapse. What is lacking is not merely a condition of possibility for however many <i>specific projects</i>; it is something that the intelligibility of <i>projects in general</i> depends upon. In a world where other people appear unpredictable and threatening, everything else is riddled with uncertainty and doubt as well: &#8220;The fact that other, qualified people have built this device gives me no reason to think it will work&#8221;; &#8220;This object could be used by someone to harm me&#8221;; &#8220;Others might do any number of things with this.&#8221; In the most extreme case, one comes to inhabit a world where the possibility of meaningful, progressive, goal-directed activity is absent. Other kinds of concern may be affected in different ways. For instance, care for certain other people might endure, but a pervasive sense of the world as unsafe, unpredictable, and inhospitable to human relationships would render it fragile and vulnerable. Interpersonal care is thus coupled with the anticipation of impending and inevitable loss, with dread and anticipatory grief.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Hence we can further see how such experiences implicate the sense of time. One no longer experiences the actualization of significant possibilities in the way one once did. The future may appear largely or exclusively in the guise of threat, while the past may seem oddly closed, something that can no longer be built on, positively developed. Given an inability to anticipate and actualize certain kinds of possibility, one cannot <i>move on</i> from what has happened. How the traumatized person relates to others thus shapes how the world as a whole is experienced, in a way that centrally involves a change in the global style of anticipation. Another reason why loss of safety, security, certainty, confidence, or trust amounts to an alteration in the modal structure of intentionality is that the bedrock relative to which things are more usually taken to be the case or otherwise is not just <i>mine</i> but <i>ours</i>. Taking something to be the case ordinarily involves taking it to be rooted in a public world, to which one also belongs. And the sense of being part of a public world is inextricable from how one anticipates and relates to other people in general (a point I will return to in chapter 6). By rendering the global style of experience dependent on other people to such an extent, we also render ourselves vulnerable to them, as cases of traumatic experience serve to illustrate. Husserlian certainty, and with it the modal structure of intentionality, is thus inseparable from trust in other people; its integrity is entrusted to them.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In some of the texts discussed earlier in this chapter, Husserl indicates that a largely confident anticipation-fulfillment structure is integral not only to the modal structure of intentionality but also to what I referred to in chapter 2 as the &#8220;minimal self,&#8221; our most primitive sense of being a singular locus of experience.<sup><span id="n5-21"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f5-21">21</a></span></sup> Were that dynamic to break down completely, he suggests, the unity and singularity of consciousness would be altogether lost:</p>
			<p class="E">But here, so that in all events the unity of an intentional process can still be maintained, a certain measure of continuous fulfilment is presupposed. Correlatively, a certain unity of objective sense must be upheld throughout the flux of successive appearances. It is only in this way that we have, in the process of lived experience and its appearances, the unanimity of <i>one</i> consciousness, one unified intentionality spreading over all phases. (1948/1973, &#167;21, p. 88)</p>
			<p class="E">Every expectation can also be disappointed, and disappointment essentially presupposes partial fulfillment; without a certain measure of unity maintaining itself in the progression of perceptions, the unity of the intentional lived-experience would crumble. (2001, &#167;5, p. 64)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">This is consistent with my view that even the most primitive sense of self is inextricable from the modal structure of intentionality. However, it should be added that erosion of the sense of being a singular locus of experience is not attributable solely to a loss of specifically <i>perceptual </i>cohesion. The reason even &#8220;minimal self&#8221; does not survive is that the coherence of perceptual experience underlies the ability to distinguish between modalities of intentionality. If the other modalities of intentionality could be sustained independently of perceptual experience, then some sense of subjectivity would endure even the most profound of perceptual disruptions, given that one would still remember, believe, and imagine, and distinguish between such experiences. It is <i>because</i> perceptual experience includes something more encompassing, something essential to the structure of intentionality, that breakdown of the anticipation-fulfillment dynamic is incompatible with retention of self-experience, with any kind of perspectival structure.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
