<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_003" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="chap3"/></div>
			<p class="CT">3 Thought Insertion Clarified</p>
			<p class="TxNI">This chapter makes a case for the view that certain kinds of anomalous experience, often but not always associated with schizophrenia diagnoses, consist of disturbances in the modal structure of intentionality. Here, and in chapter 4, the emphasis is on episodic, localized disturbances. Chapters 5 and 6 then address wider-ranging and longer-term changes in the structure of intentionality that render one vulnerable to these disturbances. The principal aim of the current chapter is to show that the sense of being in a given type of intentional state cannot be accounted for solely in terms of characteristic experiential content. An experience can have a content that continues to resemble that of intentional state <i>x</i> more so than that of intentional state <i>y</i>, while the sense of being in intentional state <i>y</i> predominates. In such cases, the sense of being in one type of intentional state rather than the other is not clear-cut and unproblematic. The different factors that contribute to sense come into conflict with each other. With this, there is an awareness of undergoing a peculiar kind of experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">My approach provides a way of interpreting experiences that are otherwise puzzling and difficult to pin down. The chapter begins with a consideration of TI (thought insertion), the experience of one&#8217;s own thoughts as somehow alien and emanating from elsewhere, usually from another person. What is experienced as alien, I suggest, is a thought content rather than an act of thinking. TI involves a perception-like experience of something that still resembles, in certain respects, the content of a thought. To support this interpretation, I compare the phenomenology of TI to that of AVH (auditory verbal hallucination). After making clear that the category &#8220;AVH&#8221; accommodates a range of quite different experiences, I identify a distinctive subset of AVHs and argue that they are indistinguishable from TI. What we have here is a common experience, which might be described in terms of AVH, TI, or both. It involves an unfamiliar kind of intentionality that lies somewhere between thinking and perceiving, a quasi-perceptual experience of thought content. This can coexist with more familiar kinds of intentional state. Hence a person might say that she <i>hears</i> various worldly events, and <i>hears</i>&#8212;in a different way&#8212;her voices. The chapter concludes by arguing that the distinction between agency and ownership/subjectivity, which is often used to make sense of TI, does little to illuminate the relevant phenomenon.</p>
			<div><a id="part1"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">3.1 </span>The Sense of Perceiving</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Experiencing what is &#8220;here, now&#8221; as different from what is &#8220;not here, not now&#8221; is essential to our ordinarily effortless appreciation that we are perceiving rather than remembering or imagining. In chapter 2, I referred to this in terms of a sense of <i>presence</i>. It can be added that intentional states also presuppose a sense of <i>reality</i>, meaning a wider-ranging grasp of the distinction between what is and what is not the case. Without any sense of that distinction, we would be insensitive to the differences between intentional states such as imagining and believing. Although such extreme changes in the structure of intentionality are unusual, more subtle alterations in the sense of undergoing one or another type of experience are commonplace. For instance, illness or jet lag can involve an all-enveloping and lingering sense of one&#8217;s perceptual experience as somehow lacking, not quite right. On other occasions, one might have the fleeting and more localized experience of something as oddly unreal, not quite there. Here is a first-person account of certain kinds of <i>unreality</i> experience, offered by a psychologist some years ago:</p>
			<p class="Ef">In my own experience the feeling of reality rises and falls. &#8230; Lack of sleep reduces the feeling of reality; so too, in even greater degree, does muscular fatigue of the eyes. &#8230; At such times the external world seems to lack solidity: it awakens no interest; people appear as trees walking; thought moves sluggishly; indifference to the consequences of actions ensues; consciousness of self ebbs. &#8230; The haze of an autumn day that makes objects seem far-off, immense, veiled, has the same effect upon mental experience. &#8230; The roar of a big city, the presence of a crowd of people reduces the sense of reality. &#8230;</p>
			<p class="El">Not only do sense stimulations bring on a feeling of unreality that extends from the sense world to the world of thought and emotion, but the reverse may happen. Prolonged reading or thinking on philosophical topics has the same results. (Quoted in Landis 1964, 352)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Similar descriptions can be obtained from a wide range of sources. For instance, they are commonplace in literary fiction (Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 2). It is hard to pin down exactly what the relevant phenomenological changes consist of, especially when the world as a whole seems somehow distant, unreal, strange, or unfamiliar. Elsewhere I have referred to the many variants of the sense of reality and belonging as &#8220;existential feelings.&#8221; I have analyzed these feelings in terms of the kinds of salient possibility that are phenomenologically accessible to us, possibilities that are inextricable from a range of felt bodily dispositions (Ratcliffe 2005, 2008, 2015). I do not adopt the term &#8220;existential feeling&#8221;  in this book, partly because my account equally concerns the structure of episodic, content-specific experiences, and partly because my discussion of the interpersonal and social backdrop against which these experiences occur is much broader in scope than my earlier analysis of existential feeling. Even so, the position developed here complements, and can be regarded as an elaboration of, that analysis. It serves to situate existential feeling within a dynamic account of interpersonal and social experience, as well as placing more emphasis on how global changes in the anticipatory structure of experience (in other words, changes in existential feeling) relate to localized intentional experiences. The phenomena addressed here are more extreme than the subtle shifts in the sense of presence and reality we all experience from time to time. In the more usual case, a sense of presence might be somehow lacking from perceptual experience, or one&#8217;s imaginings might be somehow perception-like. Even so, the nature and extent of that change is not such as to compromise an appreciation of the differences between types of intentional state. While a perceptual experience might be imagination- or memory-like in certain respects, it remains an unambiguously perceptual experience, albeit an unusual one.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Let us start by focusing specifically on the sense of presence in perceptual experience&#8212;the sense of something as here, now, and as existing independently of my experience of it. To understand experiences where that sense is to some degree disrupted, we first need to acknowledge that &#8220;presence&#8221; is not a singular, unitary achievement. Hence alterations in the sense of presence cannot be adequately conceptualized solely in terms of varying degrees, like turning the volume of a radio up or down. In addition, there are qualitative differences to be discerned. The question of what our experiences of presence consist of is seldom addressed.<sup><span id="n3-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-1">1</a></span></sup> The most detailed, nuanced account I know of is that of Aggernaes (1972, 222&#8211;227), who identifies seven pairs of opposing factors that together constitute an experience of something as present or otherwise. There are, he says, &#8220;qualities&#8221; of sensation/ideation, behavioral relevance/irrelevance, publicness/privateness, objectivity/subjectivity, existence/nonexistence, involuntariness/voluntariness, and, finally, independence/dependence from &#8220;a quite unusual mental state in oneself.&#8221;<sup><span id="n3-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-2">2</a></span></sup> This list is problematic for several reasons. Without further refinement, it is unclear whether or how certain criteria are to be distinguished from others or how the various criteria relate to each other, a concern that applies to &#8220;public,&#8221; &#8220;objective,&#8221; and &#8220;existent&#8221; versus &#8220;private,&#8221; &#8220;subjective,&#8221; and &#8220;nonexistent.&#8221; Aggernaes states that the quality of existence involves taking something to persist even when nobody is experiencing it. But is the claim that taking an entity to exist involves taking it to be there when nobody is currently perceiving it, or does existence further involve the appreciation that an entity would endure even if there were no people at all? Depending on which, we might get quite different answers to the questions of whether books, $10 bills, companies, share prices, and currency exchange rates &#8220;exist&#8221; in the relevant sense. One might also object that this &#8220;quality&#8221; is merely a combination of two other qualities: objectivity (accessibility to different sense modalities) and publicness (perceptual accessibility to anyone with a typical human perceptual system). A further concern is that the meanings of such terms can shift subtly, depending on their context of use. We might say that something exists only if it does not depend wholly on a person&#8217;s thought contents, but there is equally a sense in which thought contents exist. Other contrasts are easier to pin down, but too much is left unsaid. For instance, what exactly are qualities of &#8220;sensation&#8221; and &#8220;ideation&#8221;? And a quality of dependence/independence from one&#8217;s own unusual mental state tells us nothing about what the alleged &#8220;quality&#8221; consists of. It just redescribes the appreciation of presence or reality that we are seeking to account for in appealing to the various other qualities. The contrast between voluntary and involuntary is problematic for other reasons. We might actively imagine something while perceiving something in a more passive way, but an imagining could just as well be passive while a perception involves effortful, exploratory movement. So, even if the distinction can be drawn in a clear-cut way, it remains unclear whether or how it applies to the sense of presence.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The account also suffers from a more general lack of clarity, as it is not stated which combinations of qualities are necessary and sufficient for a sense of presence. To complicate matters, it could be that different combinations of qualities are sufficient for presence, thus implying that there are qualitatively different senses of presence. And perhaps combinations that are sufficient for some entities in some situations are not sufficient for other entities in other situations. Take behavioral relevance, for instance. Not everything that we experience as present is actually or even potentially behaviorally relevant. In many instances, it seems plausible to suggest that a lack of behavioral relevance will impact on the sense of presence. Suppose you suddenly notice what appears to be a train heading toward you at high speed, but you feel no inclination to get out of the way, no behavioral or affective responsiveness at all. This might well contribute to a strange experience of the train as not really there or not fully there. Yet, when you look up at a cloud, at least when there is no threat of rain or of its obscuring the sun, the cloud is surely experienced as &#8220;there&#8221; in an unproblematic way but at the same time as behaviorally irrelevant.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Despite such concerns, Aggernaes&#8217;s account remains informative for current purposes, given that it explicitly acknowledges the nonunitary, multifaceted structure of presence and indicates that this structure is amenable to further analysis. It also points to the possibility that some of the contributing factors can come apart and even compete with each other, perhaps generating a sense of presence that is incomplete, ambiguous, or conflicted. We can add that there may be a dimensional aspect to this. Rather than being <i>either</i> fully operative <i>or</i> fully absent, the various factors might be heightened or diminished, and some might be heightened while others are diminished. Where conflict arises, we can further ask why it is that one factor overrides another, and not vice versa.</p>
			<p class="Tx">These points apply equally to the other modalities of intentionality. Although Aggernaes does not consider intentional states more widely, he could equally have asked questions such as &#8220;How do we distinguish remembering from imagining?&#8221; and &#8220;What constitutes the sense of something as past, the sense that it really happened?&#8221; The experiences considered in this chapter do not involve losing the sense of perceiving. Rather, they involve having a sense of perceiving something when one is not perceiving it. However, it will be argued in later chapters that this is partly attributable to a much wider-ranging diminishment in the sense of perceptual presence, which reduces the phenomenological gap between perceiving and imagining, rendering the person more vulnerable to experiences that fall between the two. With that in mind, it is worth noting what Aggernaes has to say about AVHs and the sense of presence. When asked about the qualities of their AVH experiences, not all of his subjects offered the same responses. This would not be surprising, even if their experiences were actually very similar, given potential difficulties involved in interpreting some of the eight criteria. But, in fact, responses were fairly consistent: for all criteria but one, the majority were &#8220;positive,&#8221; rather than &#8220;negative&#8221; or &#8220;doubtful&#8221; (or, in the case of the behavioral relevance criterion, &#8220;relevant&#8221; rather than &#8220;irrelevant&#8221;). Interestingly, the exception was &#8220;publicness,&#8221; where thirteen responses were positive, two doubtful, and thirty negative. In light of this, we might wonder how to interpret subjects&#8217; responses to the other criteria. How could something be experienced as existent, objective, independent of one&#8217;s own mental states, and yet not public?</p>
			<p class="Tx">There is no straightforward contradiction here, as it is possible in principle for something to be part of the mind-independent world and at the same time perceptually inaccessible to the majority of people or even to all but one of them. There is a distinction between epistemic and ontological privacy: one can have exclusive epistemic access to something the existence of which does not depend on one&#8217;s own mental states. On one interpretation, then, there is no tension. However, this may not be the right interpretation. Consider an alternative scenario. Suppose subjects recognize that these phenomena are not part of a shared world and do not even experience them as part of that world. Perhaps, in other circumstances, this recognition would suffice to override competing factors that contribute to a sense of presence. What, though, if the relevant experiences arise against the backdrop of a wider sense of isolation and estrangement from others; what if the person&#8217;s more general appreciation of being embedded in a public world is diminished, such that the experienced contrast between &#8220;public&#8221; and &#8220;private&#8221; is lessened? In such a scenario, experiencing something as wholly disconnected from a public world would seem less strange, less out of kilter with other perceptual experiences. With a lessening of the public/private contrast, other aspects of the experience might make a more pronounced contribution than they otherwise would to the sense of perceiving something, rather than, say, imagining it. Of course, these suggestions are highly speculative, but chapters 4 through 6 will further develop and defend a position along such lines. The first step in the argument, which occupies the remainder of this chapter, is to show that the characteristic content of perception and other aspects of the sense of perceiving can come apart. To do so, I turn first to TI and then to AVH.</p>
			<div><a id="part2"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">3.2 </span>Two Interpretations of Thought Insertion</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In recent years, TI has received considerable attention from philosophers, but their descriptions of the experience are often ambiguous. Graham (2004, 90) describes it as a matter of &#8220;undergoing conscious thoughts and directly knowing what they are about (their content) but failing, in some sense, to experience them as one&#8217;s own. One fails to self-ascribe.&#8221; The person experiences the production of thoughts, but somehow experiences them as emanating from somewhere else, usually from a personal source. This is clearly of philosophical interest, as it poses a potential challenge to what Graham (2004, 92) calls the &#8220;principle of present-tense ascription immunity,&#8221; the assumption that having a thought implies having an associated awareness of it as one&#8217;s own. As Campbell (1999, 609) puts it, TI calls into question the intuition that &#8220;you can get it wrong about which psychological state you are in, but you cannot get it right about the psychological state but wrong about whose psychological state it is.&#8221; Nevertheless, the current consensus seems to be that TI is not, after all, such a threat to entrenched philosophical and everyday assumptions. To diffuse the tension, we can appeal to a distinction between subjectivity and agency (Stephens and Graham 2000) or ownership and agency (Gallagher 2005). In brief, an inserted thought remains &#8220;mine&#8221; insofar as I experience myself as the subject of that thought, but it is experienced as alien insofar as I am not the agent of it. So long as immunity to error concerns subjectivity/ownership and not agency, it is compatible with the existence of TI.</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, matters are not so simple. There is a distinction to be drawn between experiencing thought contents as alien and experiencing a process of thinking as alien (where the latter experience may or may not encompass thought contents as well). Of course, the phenomenology of thinking&#8212;assuming there even is such a thing&#8212;is heterogeneous; there is no single <i>experience of thinking</i>. Effortful thinking can be contrasted with daydreaming, and coherent trains of thought with incongruous and unanticipated interruptions. But, although thinking is active, effortful, and thematically coherent to varying degrees, an overarching distinction remains between the (admittedly variable) experience of thinking and what is thought, comparable to the distinction between seeing and what is seen, or hearing and what is heard. Which of these does TI involve? The philosophical literature on TI is overly reliant on a few choice examples, which serve in almost every case as the principal or sole basis for discussion. Here are the two most popular ones:</p>
			<p class="E">I look out of the window and I think that the garden looks nice and the grass looks cool, but the thoughts of Eamonn Andrews come into my mind. There are no other thoughts there, only his. &#8230; He treats my mind like a screen and flashes his thoughts into it like you flash a picture. (Mellor 1970, 17)</p>
			<p class="E">Thoughts are put into my mind like &#8220;Kill God.&#8221; It&#8217;s just like my mind working, but it isn&#8217;t. They come from this chap, Chris. They are his thoughts. (Frith 1992, 66)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Both descriptions are ambiguous in the relevant respect. Is Chris&#8217;s <i>thinking</i> experienced as occurring in one&#8217;s own &#8220;mind,&#8221; or, alternatively, the <i>thought contents</i> that his thinking produces? Is Eamonn Andrews &#8220;flashing&#8221; his <i>thought processes</i> onto a screen, or just the contents of his thoughts? This lack of clarity persists in many philosophical accounts of TI. For example, Stephens and Graham (2000, 4) state that &#8220;[in TI] the experience of thinking is not &#8216;I think&#8217; but &#8216;Someone else is putting their thoughts in my head.&#8217;&#8221; Does one experience the thoughts as having been put in one&#8217;s head, and thus as having originated elsewhere? Alternatively, does one experience the act of their <i>being put there</i>, which would be more akin to experiencing someone else&#8217;s thinking?<sup><span id="n3-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-3">3</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">I propose that TI involves experiencing thought contents as alien, rather than thinking. Person B is not mistaken about whether she is the owner and/or agent of her thinking. What happens, rather, is that she experiences <i>p</i> as the content of an unfamiliar, quasi-perceptual experience, rather than the content of a thought. The experience is perception-like, insofar as B experiences something as present (rather than as remembered, anticipated, or imagined) and as emanating from elsewhere. However, it remains thought-like, to the extent that the content of the experience continues to resemble that of an act of thinking. To be more specific, it resembles the content of a certain kind of thinking, usually referred to as &#8220;inner speech&#8221; or, less frequently but perhaps more accurately, &#8220;inner dialogue&#8221; (Fernyhough 2004; Fernyhough and McCarthy-Jones 2013). So the experience is strange because it involves a thought content but <i>no</i> experience of thinking, something that is quite different from experiencing an act of thinking as alien. This interpretation has the advantage of rendering the phenomenon more tractable, given that such confusions are perhaps not so unfamiliar. As noted in chapter 2, we sometimes lack insight into the nature of our emotions: we might take ourselves to be happy for someone when we resent their achievements, or fail to recognize how upset we are about something. Occasionally, we might take ourselves to remember something when we actually imagine it, or feel uncertain about whether we are remembering or imagining it. The point applies equally to dreaming, if it is taken to involve an intentional state of imagining or even a <i>sui generis</i> intentional state of dreaming, one that is not recognized as such. So, what we have here is an extreme instance of something familiar, rather than something that is utterly unfamiliar to most of us and difficult to even make sense of&#8212;someone else using your experience as a medium in which to think.<sup><span id="n3-4"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-4">4</a></span></sup> Nevertheless, as we will see, this interpretation does not render TI mundane or detract from its philosophical interest. My proposal is that TI involves disruption of the modal structure of intentionality, something that is indispensable to the integrity of experience, the sense of self, and the ability to distinguish self from nonself.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What grounds are there for adopting the content-interpretation? There is no evidence in the TI literature for the view that it concerns thinking rather than thought content; stock examples are compatible with both interpretations. However, there is also a positive case to be made for the content view. To make that case, I compare TI to AVH, a comparison that turns out to be mutually illuminating.</p>
			<div><a id="part3"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">3.3 </span>Verbal Hallucinations and Inserted Thoughts</p>
			<p class="TxNI">If one accepts (a) that hallucinations are perceptual experiences that arise in the absence of appropriate external stimuli, and (b) that TI involves an alienated <i>act</i> of thinking, then AVH and TI turn out to be very different. While AVH involves experiencing <i>p</i> in the absence of <i>p</i>, TI involves thinking that <i>p</i> but experiencing one&#8217;s thinking as someone else&#8217;s. So, while AVH consists in a familiar kind of experience (albeit a nonveridical one), TI involves an experience that is intrinsically anomalous and strange: having a thought process that one does not think. Even if we set aside (a) and instead emphasize the widespread view that AVHs involve confusing one&#8217;s own inner state&#8212;usually, one&#8217;s own &#8220;inner speech&#8221;&#8212;with externally directed perception, the two phenomena remain distinct. An inner speech approach is compatible with (a), if it is accepted that the resulting experience is much like or even indistinguishable from an auditory verbal perception, but not if an experience of misplaced inner speech is taken to be very different from veridical auditory perception. Either way, though, TI differs from AVH, as it involves correctly identifying a type of intentional state (an act of thinking) but wrongly attributing a state of that type to a person other than oneself, rather than mistaking one type of intentional state (thinking in inner speech) for another (perceiving).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Given this difference, it is puzzling that various authors have sought to account for both experiences in the same way, often by appealing to an agency&#8211;ownership distinction. Some have further suggested that AVH and TI are actually different descriptions of the same phenomenon, at least in some instances of AVH (e.g., Langland-Hassan 2008, 373). A content-interpretation of TI makes clear how this could indeed be so. If TI involves experiencing thought contents as (a) present, and (b) emanating from elsewhere, then it shares these characteristics with perceptual experiences. So it could equally be described in terms of a perception with an unfamiliar kind of content. Conversely, if AVH content is not perceived to originate in a localized external source and does not have the full range of auditory properties, it could equally be described in terms of experiencing an alien thought.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Nevertheless, it would be a mistake to simply identify AVH with TI, as AVHs are phenomenologically diverse. That they are heterogeneous is hardly controversial and has long been recognized. Consider the following remarks from Jaspers&#8217; <i>General Psychopathology</i>:</p>
			<p class="E">We often find &#8220;voices&#8221; as well, the &#8220;invisible&#8221; people who shout all kinds of things at the patient, ask him questions and abuse him or order him about. As to content, this may consist of single words or whole sentences; there may be a single voice or a whole jumble of voices; it may be an orderly conversation between the voices themselves or between them and the patient. They may be women&#8217;s, children&#8217;s or men&#8217;s voices, the voices of acquaintances or unknown people, or quite undefinable human voices. Curses may be uttered, actions of the patient may be commented on or there may be meaningless words, empty repetitions. Sometimes the patient hears his own thoughts spoken aloud. (1963, 73)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">More recent accounts have provided specific inventories of variables. These include volume, auditory qualities  (such as accent), number of voices, degree of personification, emotional tone, thematic content, mode of address (second- or third-person), level of control over voices, level of distress associated with them, and the presence or absence of hallucinations in other modalities. Distinctions can also be drawn between AVHs that consist of commands, advice, comments, and/or abuse. The various differences and commonalities between these experiences do not seem to track established diagnostic categories in a reliable way (e.g., Nayani and David 1996; Lar&#248;i 2006; McCarthy-Jones et al. 2014). Hence some have suggested that subcategories of AVH should be identified in order to acknowledge differences between types of experience that syndrome-based diagnostic categories are insensitive to, differences that reflect the involvement of different causal mechanisms (e.g., Jones 2010).</p>
			<p class="Tx">It might be objected that any attempt to identify TI with AVH is at odds with the fact that AVHs have auditory properties, which are experienced as originating in specific locations that are physically external to the subject (e.g., Wu 2012). In contrast, TI is experienced as neither auditory nor as emanating from the external environment; it is <i>alien</i> in a quite different and less straightforward way. However, there are significant difficulties involved in interpreting statements along the lines of &#8220;I hear a voice,&#8221; as well as more specific descriptions of the relevant experiences. A detailed and insightful discussion of these difficulties (which are seldom acknowledged in the clinical literature) is offered by Sarbin (1967). He takes it as given that AVHs are &#8220;imaginings&#8221; of one or another kind. But, rather than asking why there might be a first-person confusion between imagining and perceiving, he places the emphasis on why an interpreter might construe an imagining, reported in whatever way, as a nonveridical perceptual experience:</p>
			<p class="E">What are the antecedent and concurrent conditions that lead a person publicly to report his imaginings in such a way as to lead a psychologist, psychiatrist, or other professional to designate the described imagining as an hallucination? (1967, 363)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Sarbin is critical of a tendency to assume that first-person reports are straightforward, easy-to-interpret descriptions of experience, and notes that various nonphenomenological factors influence the linguistic content of first-person reports. For instance, whether or not a person qualifies his testimony with &#8220;as if&#8221; depends not just on his ability to recognize an experience as distinct from a veridical perception but also on his linguistic abilities, which vary considerably depending on whether he is well educated, a native or nonnative speaker, an adult, or a child. Sarbin adds that, in certain contexts, such as that of reading a poem, the interpreter is expected to supply the &#8220;as-if.&#8221; Furthermore, words such as &#8220;real&#8221; and &#8220;unreal&#8221; are used in a range of ways and therefore pose interpretive challenges: the &#8220;nonidentity of meaning of &#8216;real&#8217; for the diagnoser and the patient reflects some of the problems in the employment of the words real and reality&#8221; (Sarbin 1967, 377).<sup><span id="n3-5"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-5">5</a></span></sup> For instance, &#8220;unreal&#8221; could mean &#8220;not a genuine instance of something&#8221; or &#8220;nonexistent,&#8221; and it can be added that the meaning of &#8220;nonexistent&#8221; is itself far from transparent. Sarbin also raises concerns about the term &#8220;hallucination,&#8221; which he takes to be &#8220;pejorative&#8221; and &#8220;generally applied to the reported imaginings of people already considered degraded&#8221; (1967, 379). If that is right, then we run the risk of adopting an uncharitable interpretive stance from the outset, of assuming a lack of first-person insight and descriptive ability, rather than being sensitive to the subtleties and nuances of first-person descriptions that often point to something far less straightforward than orthodox hallucination.</p>
			<p class="Tx">There is a particular linguistic challenge involved in attempting to convey kinds of intentionality that may be wholly unfamiliar to an interlocutor, experiences that lie somewhere between perceiving and thinking, or between imagining and believing.<sup><span id="n3-6"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-6">6</a></span></sup> Such experiences can involve a range of subtle tensions between various factors that more usually contribute, in a cohesive, unproblematic way, to the sense of being in a given intentional state. Wide-ranging disturbances of interpersonal experience also need to be taken into consideration by the interpreter. If someone experiences everyone else as potentially hostile, distant, or inconsequential, then her ability and willingness to communicate will no doubt be affected. Furthermore, if her sense of the distinction between what is and is not the case has been eroded, she cannot be interpreted as making straightforward claims concerning what is and is not the case, of a kind that we would more usually take for granted. So, what appears to be a straightforward communicative utterance might turn out not to be. When it comes to interpreting first-person reports, one implication of this is that a clear line cannot be drawn between metaphor and literal utterance. Consider the following:</p>
			<p class="E">Once more my playmate became strangely transformed and, with an excited laugh, once more I cried out, &#8220;Stop, Alice, I&#8217;m afraid of you; you&#8217;re a lion!&#8221; But actually, I didn&#8217;t see a lion at all: it was only an attempt to describe the enlarging image of my friend and the fact that I didn&#8217;t recognize her. (Sechehaye 1970, 23)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The utterance &#8220;you&#8217;re a lion&#8221; could be taken to express an orthodox hallucination, a false belief, or both. But it is actually an attempt to express or convey an unusual experience in terms of something more specific that is, in some respects, isomorphic with it. In both cases, there is the sense that something large, predatory, powerful, and frightening is fast approaching. As noted earlier, the sense of presence and reality is multifaceted. Hence experiences such as this should not be assumed to involve something appearing as straightforwardly present. In this case, it may be more accurate to say that there is a vague, ambivalent sense of the presence of a lion or something like a lion, rather than a straightforward&#8212;albeit unpleasant&#8212;perceptual experience of another person.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Despite these concerns, I concede that some AVHs resemble (to varying degrees) veridical auditory perceptual experiences. Many accounts of AVHs emphasize such experiences. For example, Garrett and Silva (2003, 445) endorse the view that &#8220;the subjective quality of sensation&#8221; is a &#8220;near-universal feature of auditory hallucinations,&#8221; while Wu (2012, 90) premises his model of AVHs on the fact that they &#8220;<span class="I">sound</span> like voices.&#8221; Nevertheless, it is generally conceded that there are differences in perceived origin. Some AVHs are experienced as originating in specific, external locations, while others seem to come from within the head, within one&#8217;s bodily boundaries, or from nowhere in particular. For example, David (1994, 285) observes that most but not all subjects experience voices as arising &#8220;inside the head,&#8221; while Nayani and David (1996) report that 49 percent of their subjects heard voices through their ears, 38 percent internally, and 12 percent in both ways. The auditory element seems to vary considerably in the internal cases. Leudar et al. (1997, 888&#8211;889) state that 71 percent of their subjects heard only internal voices, 18 percent heard voices &#8220;through their ears,&#8221; and 11 percent heard both. In all cases, though, the voice was &#8220;verbal&#8221; and had &#8220;phenomenal properties like hearing another person speaking.&#8221; Hence they suggest that, regardless of their perceived origins, AVHs are &#8220;very much like hearing other people speak.&#8221; However, others describe AVHs as predominantly internal and as <i>lacking</i> in auditory properties. Stephens and Graham (2000) argue at length that most &#8220;voice-hearers&#8221; do not actually hear voices at all; Frith (1992, 73) maintains that an AVH can involve something more abstract than hearing a voice, &#8220;an experience of receiving a communication without any sensory component&#8221;; and Moritz and Lar&#248;i (2008, 98, 104) suggest that the term &#8220;voice-hearing&#8221; may well be a misnomer, an &#8220;inaccurate term to express that their cognitions are <i>not their own</i>.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, we should proceed with caution here, as different first-person descriptions do not imply different experiences, while similar descriptions may eclipse important phenomenological differences. But let us accept that at least some of those experiences categorized as AVHs, perhaps the majority, are experienced as internal in origin and lacking in some or even all auditory qualities. As Stephens and Graham (2000, 35) remark, &#8220;voices are not, in general, experienced as audition-like. Even when voices involve auditory hallucination, one may plausibly question whether their auditory or audition-like character explains their alien quality.&#8221; The question thus arises of why internal, nonauditory AVHs are experienced as alien at all, as emanating from elsewhere. In the external case, the &#8220;hallucinatory&#8221; character of the experience can plausibly be accounted for in terms of something seeming to be both physically external and auditory in nature. However, as internal AVHs differ in both location and sensory perceptual character, they cannot be alien or external in the same way.</p>
			<p class="Tx">For current purposes, a broad distinction between external, audition-like AVHs and internal, nonauditory experiences will prove informative, serving to contrast quite different kinds of experience that also arise in different ways. As we will see in the next chapter, this is not to be identified with a distinction between <i>hallucinations</i> and <i>pseudo-hallucinations</i>. And it is not to be conceived of as a clear-cut distinction, as it allows for in-between cases. I further acknowledge that the category of unambiguously <i>internal</i> AVHs accommodates different kinds of experience, kinds that vary in their auditory qualities. But what unites the &#8220;internal&#8221; cases is that they consist of disturbances of the modal structure of intentionality and fall somewhere between familiar intentional state categories. External, audition-like AVHs do not.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The remainder of this chapter focuses on internal AVHs, with the aims of showing that (a) the same experience can be described in terms of either AVH or TI, and (b) the fact that it can be described in both these ways aids us in interpreting it: what must it be, such that TI and AVH descriptions both apply to it? My discussion focuses on some first-person accounts, which were obtained via an Internet questionnaire study I conducted in cooperation with colleagues. Participants were invited to provide open-ended, free-text responses to questions that included &#8220;Please try to describe your voice(s) and/or voice-like experiences,&#8221; &#8220;How, if at all, are these experiences different from hearing the voice of someone who is present in the room?&#8221; and &#8220;What kinds of moods or emotions are associated with your voices?&#8221; All respondents quoted here had psychiatric diagnoses. All numbered quotations that appear in this and later chapters were obtained via the study.<sup><span id="n3-7"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-7">7</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Before considering some of these testimonies, I should make clear <i>how</i> they are to be used here. I rely on them primarily for the purpose of illustration, in much the same way that a philosopher might quote from published autobiographies or from first-person descriptions found in the clinical literature. So I do not treat the questionnaire as a scientific study in its own right. And I do not rely on it as my primary source of evidence for the existence of certain kinds of experience. The first-person accounts considered here are consistent with what numerous published studies classify as AVHs (which is not, of course, to suggest that all published studies categorize exactly the same range of phenomena as AVHs). Some of these testimonies also help to exemplify the interpretive issues raised earlier. For example, one respondent writes, &#8220;the voices were intrusive and alien to me, and I was certain they were coming from outside of me, even though I did not hear them aurally but experienced them in my head&#8221; (9). The way the word &#8220;outside&#8221; is used here suggests that we should not be too hasty in classifying a given experience as &#8220;internal&#8221; or &#8220;external.&#8221; Here, the &#8220;voices&#8221; are not experienced as external to the subject but as internal to the head. However, they are also experienced as having originated from elsewhere. So there is an ambiguity in talk of externality; an experience of <i>something as outside</i> is to be distinguished from an experience of <i>something inside that seems to have come from elsewhere</i>. More generally, these testimonies tend not to consist of straightforward pronouncements about the nature of experience; they are hesitant and ambivalent, sometimes conceding that some or all of the words used to describe an experience are inadequate to the task: &#8220;It sounds mundane but it&#8217;s impossible to understand what it was like from the words alone&#8221; (4). Hence the phenomenology cannot simply be read off first-person reports. Rather, testimonies such as these offer important clues, pointing to new directions we might follow in seeking to better understand them. They draw attention to possibilities that more cursory references to the various qualities of voices cannot. More specifically, they serve to illustrate how an emphasis on the modalities of intentionality can shed light on the nature of otherwise puzzling experiences that people struggle to describe.<sup><span id="n3-8"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-8">8</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Although communicating and interpreting AVH experiences is no simple matter, the existence of a substantial difference between internal and external AVHs can be conveyed in a fairly straightforward way by those who experience both types. Even if a person struggles to describe her internal and her external AVHs, what she can still do is explicitly contrast them: whatever experiences <i>x</i> and <i>y</i> might consist of, <i>x</i> is not the same as <i>y</i>. And, although internal AVHs are not always said to be wholly bereft of auditory properties, first-person accounts indicate that they are quite different from audition-like AVHs that seem to originate in the external environment:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;They are inside my head. I do sometimes hear voices that are indistinguishable, but it&#8217;s shorter and much less frequent.&#8221; (15)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;There are two kinds&#8212;one indistinguishable from actual voices or noises (I hear them like physical noises, and only the point of origin (for voices) or checking with other people who are present (for sounds) lets me know when they aren&#8217;t actually real. The second is like hearing someone else&#8217;s voice in my head, generally saying something that doesn&#8217;t &#8216;sound&#8217; like my own thoughts or interior monologue.&#8221; (17)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The voice is inside my head at times, appears to come from within my brain. But at other times, specifically when my name is called, it seems that it comes from outside, almost like someone is trying to catch my attention.&#8221; (27)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Now, suppose the sensory qualities of internal AVHs do not differ from those of certain thought contents. What we would have is a perception-like experience of thought content, an unfamiliar kind of experience that could be communicated in either of two ways:</p>
			<p class="D">I experience content <i>p</i> as a thought content that I did not think.</p>
			<p class="D">I experience content <i>p</i> as a perceptual content, but one that is anomalous in lacking certain perceptual properties.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">And this is exactly what we find. Internal AVHs are not experiences of a familiar kind that are regarded as strange only because they turn out to be nonveridical. Like TI, they are intrinsically strange. They involve an unfamiliar kind of <i>perception-like</i> intentional state, a view that is consistent with the observation that people frequently struggle to convey them. These experiences are sometimes said to be &#8220;almost like&#8221; something else; it is &#8220;as though&#8221; something were the case. For instance, they might be described as akin to telepathy:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The commentary and the violent voices I heard as though someone was talking to me inside my brain, but not my own thoughts. Almost like how telepathy would sound if it were real. I don&#8217;t know how else to explain it.&#8221; (4)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;&#8230;There are things I &#8216;hear&#8217; that aren&#8217;t as much like truly hearing a voice or voices. &#8230; Instead, these are more like telepathy or hearing without hearing exactly, but knowing that content has been exchanged and feeling that happen.&#8221; (7)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Telepathic conversations between me and most other people.&#8221; (8)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The best way to describe it is telepathy, in different grades of vividness, from bearable to intrusive.&#8221; (33)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">It might be objected that this conflicts with the observation that even internal AVHs are usually reported in terms of audition, rather than other kinds of perceptual experience. However, for most people, information of the relevant kind is usually received via auditory channels, at least in the absence of visual stimuli such as reading materials. So, even when bereft of the usual sensory qualities, it lends itself to description in those terms. Furthermore, talk of hearing and sounds is often qualified, and auditory terms may appear in scare quotes (as in 7 above). How, we might ask, should &#8220;sound&#8221; be interpreted when someone says that the &#8220;voices don&#8217;t sound like my thoughts&#8221; (3)? Could the same experience just as well be described in terms of &#8220;voices&#8221; not <i>feeling</i> like one&#8217;s thoughts, or their being incongruous in some other way? As for talk of &#8220;loudness,&#8221; this seems in some cases to convey a kind of affective intrusiveness: &#8220;My thoughts aren&#8217;t as loud, nor do they usually intrude and affect how I feel&#8221; (21). In distracting from other things and demanding attention, it is perhaps more like the intensity of a pain than the volume of a noise.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Furthermore, these experiences are not invariably described in auditory terms. An internal AVH that lacks auditory properties might also be compared to an experience of reading, but in the absence of any perceived text:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;When you read a book, you hear it in the voice of the author or the narrator, but you know that voice isn&#8217;t yours. It&#8217;s a lot like that.&#8221; (5)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Other times, I have &#8216;seen voices&#8217; in the sense that the message or phrase or voice came across my mind&#8217;s eye in literal typographic form.&#8221; (7)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;&#8230; The voice seems partly real, but at the same time distorted. It can also appear as a face or a text. I cannot really describe the sound.&#8221; (Patient quoted by Henriksen, Raballo, and Parnas 2015, 167)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">So it would seem that &#8220;hearing a voice&#8221; is sometimes a synonym for the sense of receiving a meaningful, linguistic content, but without the kinds of sensory experience that this more usually involves. Karlsson (2008, 368&#8211;369) observes that some people do not or cannot &#8220;distinguish between their voices, sights, visions, touches and smells,&#8221; and that &#8220;voice&#8221; serves as a &#8220;generic term&#8221; for all of them. The common theme is not that something is &#8220;heard&#8221; in a literal way, but that it seems to have originated elsewhere. This is consistent with Hoffman et al. (2008), who maintain that, when people distinguish their voices from ordinary linguistic thoughts, the sense of non-self-origin has a more central role to play than any associated auditory properties. In other words, the content is experienced in a perception-like way; there is a sense, the nature of which remains to be clarified, of receiving something from elsewhere, a sense that does not depend on a specific type of sensory-perceptual content.<sup><span id="n3-9"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-9">9</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">The view that some internal AVHs do not have specifically auditory qualities is complemented by reports of voices in congenitally deaf subjects. Atkinson (2006) observes that, when deaf &#8220;voice-hearers&#8221; are questioned about auditory properties such as pitch or volume, questions are often met with a &#8220;disdainful response.&#8221; She suggests that talk of &#8220;voices&#8221; in this context instead conveys the experience of receiving a message or communication and recognizing its linguistic content. However, she also acknowledges the potential involvement of visual imagery and/or motor perception, pointing to a degree of heterogeneity.<sup><span id="n3-10"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-10">10</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Given all of this, the term &#8220;AVH,&#8221; although frequently used to refer to the kinds of experience addressed here, is quite clearly misleading. Some of these experiences are not &#8220;auditory&#8221; in any informative sense of the term. Hence, at this point, and for the remainder of the book, I will withdraw the &#8220;A&#8221; and refer instead to <i>verbal hallucinations</i> (hereafter, VHs). However, my doing so should not be taken to imply that the &#8220;V&#8221; and the &#8220;H&#8221; are themselves unproblematic.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Having seen that some internal or nonlocalized VHs are not auditory and instead involve a sense of receiving some kind of meaningful content from elsewhere, we can also see how VH and TI can be descriptions of a common experience. A perception-like experience with a thought-like content could be described in either way. That this is indeed the case is best illustrated by first-person accounts that describe the same experiences in terms of both voices and inserted thoughts, or blur the boundary between the two types of description:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The voice inside my head sounds nothing like a real person talking to me, but rather like another person&#8217;s thoughts in my head.&#8221; (1)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The voices inside my head are like thoughts, only they are not my own.&#8221; (2)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;&#8230; It definitely sounds like it is from inside my head. It&#8217;s at some kind of border between thinking and hearing.&#8221; (18)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The voice is not strictly audible, does not turn my head toward a speaker, there is no real speaker, just a thinker who can make their thought known to me. I hear but I don&#8217;t hear with my ears.&#8221; (30)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;A voice-hearing experience is more like hearing thoughts.&#8221; (37)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Although one might quarrel over the precise nature of the experiences that people are trying to describe here, what such accounts do make clear is that a singular experience of whatever kind <i>is</i> sometimes described in both ways, as an audition-like, perceptual experience with an unfamiliar content and as a thought content that is experienced in an odd, perception-like way. Having got that far, we can go on to ask what the relevant experience could be like, such that it is amenable to both descriptions. And the most plausible answer is that it involves a perception-like experience of something that continues to resemble, in some respects, the content of a thought or of a certain kind of thought. The interchangeability of TI and VH descriptions thus constitutes evidence in support of the content-interpretation of TI. People <i>do</i> describe the same experience in terms of perceiving that <i>p</i> and experiencing the thought that <i>p</i> as alien. By postulating an unfamiliar kind of experience that falls somewhere in between thinking and perceiving, we can make sense of such reports. Hence, in the absence of conflicting evidence that supports the &#8220;alienated thinking&#8221; view of TI, the content-interpretation is to be preferred.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I concede that some internal VHs are likely to have certain auditory or audition-like properties, and thus further lend themselves to description in terms of hearing voices. Even so, this need not conflict with the claim that they are TI under another description. The view that thought is sometimes or always <i>wholly</i> bereft of auditory properties is far from uncontroversial. Most approaches to VHs take them to involve misattributed &#8220;inner speech&#8221; rather than simply &#8220;thought,&#8221; where inner speech is only one form that our thoughts can take. And Hoffman (1986), among others, suggests that inner speech includes &#8220;auditory imagery.&#8221; Furthermore, as will become clearer in later chapters, internal VHs are most likely not restricted to perception-like experiences of inner speech. They can instead involve the erosion of phenomenological boundaries between perception and imagination (of one or another kind) or perception and memory, and auditory properties may be more pronounced in some of these cases. There is also plausibly a degree of variation in how inner speech or inner dialogue is more usually experienced; some may experience it in a more audition-like way than others. A further complication is that, in taking internal VHs to be perception-like, we should not assume an exclusive resemblance to sensory perceptions of the external environment. They are experienced as falling within one&#8217;s bodily boundaries and, in this respect, they more closely resemble interoception or proprioception. But, given that meaningful communications are ordinarily received from sources external to the body, they differ from bodily experiences as well. This further emphasizes the point that VH/TI involves an unusual kind of experience, something that is not quite like thinking, externally directed perception, or perception of bodily states.<sup><span id="n3-11"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-11">11</a></span></sup></p>
			<div><a id="part4"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">3.4 </span>An Unfamiliar Kind of Intentionality</p>
			<p class="TxNI">What we have here is a way of experiencing, a kind of intentionality, that does not fit into established categories. It is not a matter of having an experience that is indistinguishable from or much like one of perceiving, believing, remembering, or imagining. But neither should it be regarded simply as an &#8220;in-between&#8221; state, which blurs the boundaries between two kinds of intentionality and can be placed somewhere on a spectrum. Rather, aspects of one kind of experience are paired with the sense of having another kind of experience. And neither sense nor content is left wholly intact and unambiguous, experienced exactly as it would be in the context of an unproblematic pairing. The experience is intrinsically strange. Even if a sense of its being a perceptual experience predominates, it is also recognized as a peculiar kind of perception, different from the more familiar kinds of sensory experience that occur alongside it.</p>
			<p class="Tx">My discussion is thus consistent with observations of &#8220;double-bookkeeping&#8221; in people with hallucinations and/or delusions, a phenomenon described by Bleuler (1950) in terms of conflicting attitudes that are simultaneously adopted in relation to some content. For instance, a patient might laugh at something that she claims at the same time to firmly believe. This tension also applies to the relationship between belief content and action: &#8220;Kings and Emperors, Popes, and Redeemers engage, for the most part, in quite banal work, provided they still have any energy at all for activity&#8221; (129). Bleuler construes this in terms of two things running in parallel but without &#8220;interfering with each other&#8221;; there is a &#8220;double registration&#8221; or &#8220;double orientation&#8221; (378). More recently, this kind of experience has been addressed in the context of phenomenological psychopathology. For instance, Sass (1994, 3) describes double-bookkeeping as follows:</p>
			<p class="E">Many schizophrenic patients seem to experience their delusions and hallucinations as having a special quality or feel that sets these apart from their &#8220;real&#8221; beliefs and perceptions. &#8230; Indeed, such patients often seem to have a surprising, and rather disconcerting, kind of insight into their own condition.<sup><span id="n3-12"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-12">12</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="TxNI">Similarly, van den Berg (1982, 105) observes that psychiatric patients usually know &#8220;full well the difference in nature between their hallucinations and their perceptions.&#8221; Voices, he writes, are often given a &#8220;special name,&#8221; in virtue of their having a &#8220;recognizable character of their own which distinguishes them from <i>perception</i> and also from <i>imagination</i>.&#8221; What we have is something that resembles, in certain respects, two different kinds of intentional state, while remaining phenomenologically distinguishable from both of them. As Straus (1958, 166) writes, &#8220;the voices are heard, they are acoustic phenomena, but they are also different enough to contrast with all else that is audible. The mode of their reception is rather a being-affected, similar to hearing.&#8221; They are, as he puts it, &#8220;quasi-acoustic.&#8221; It is this <i>being-affected</i> that I seek to address. The content of an experience may continue to resemble that of a thought, but it somehow <i>affects</i> one in a way more like that of a perception. In other words, one has something of the <i>sense of perceiving</i> and perhaps even the sense of perceiving through one or another sensory modality. Consider the following description:</p>
			<p class="E">I did not hear them as I heard real cries uttered by real people. The noises, localized on the right side, drove me to stop up my ears. But I readily distinguished them from the noises of reality. I heard them without hearing them, and recognized that they arose within me. (Sechehaye 1970, 59)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Reference to &#8220;hearing without hearing&#8221; serves to emphasize the seemingly paradoxical nature of the experience. There is a sense of hearing, but with little or nothing of the associated content. However, &#8220;readily distinguishing&#8221; such experiences from the &#8220;noises of reality&#8221; also indicates that they arise against the backdrop of a modal structure that remains to some degree intact. One can still hear and think in more familiar ways, distinguish thinking from hearing, and distinguish both from anomalous experiences that might be described in terms of thought or audition. This is consistent with the finding that the majority of clinical and nonclinical voice-hearers are able to distinguish their &#8220;voices&#8221; from veridical auditory perceptions and also from thoughts (Moritz and Lar&#248;i 2008; Hoffman et al. 2008). Indeed, Leudar et al. (1997, 889) report that none of their subjects &#8220;systematically confused the voices with other people speaking&#8212;they know when they are &#8216;hallucinating.&#8217;&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">VH/TI experiences can take the form of <i>occasional</i> interruptions, occurring against the backdrop of a more generally unproblematic sense of the modalities of intentionality. However, they can also be more enduring, a near constant accompaniment to more typical experiences of thinking and perceiving. In both scenarios, the fact that VH/TI is distinguishable from more familiar forms of experience does not imply that a wider-ranging sense of the modalities of intentionality remains wholly intact. It could be that VH/TI involves a particularly pronounced manifestation of a much more encompassing disturbance in the modal structure of experience. In other words, none of the person&#8217;s beliefs, memories, thoughts, and imaginings involve quite the same kind of intentional experience that they previously did. This phenomenological change renders her vulnerable to more pronounced disruptions that are temporally localized and/or limited to certain thematic contents. Chapters 5 and 6 will develop an account along these lines.</p>
			<p class="Tx">One might wonder how all of this relates to the widespread view that TI is a <i>delusion</i>. It cannot simply be that VH is a hallucination and TI a delusion, as they can amount to different descriptions of a common phenomenon. On one account, the difference is just a matter of whether or not the person comes to regard her experience as veridical. It feels <i>as if</i> the content comes from elsewhere, but whether or not this either constitutes or gives rise to a delusion depends on whether or not she accepts that it comes from elsewhere, whether she <i>endorses</i> the content. It is debatable whether a sense of the content&#8217;s coming from a personal source, sometimes a specific individual, is intrinsic to the experience or whether it involves the embellishment of a core experience. However, the latter is plausible, given that VHs are personified to varying degrees (Bell 2013). And, as noted by Hoerl (2001, 189), patients &#8220;seem much more unequivocal that the thoughts in question do not belong to them than they are about possible ways in which others might be implicated in their occurrence.&#8221; A high degree of personification is plausibly linked to delusion formation, given that it involves an increasingly elaborate attempt to <i>make sense of</i> the experience in terms of another agent, who may have specific characteristics and intentions. </p>
			<p class="Tx">In seeking to understand the personification process, we should again consider the modal structure of intentionality. Suppose a person starts to imagine personalities behind his VH experiences, and gradually integrates these experiences into a coherent narrative, involving one or more characters. If the wider modal structure of intentionality is disrupted, he might not experience the result as an unambiguous work of imagination. So an underlying disturbance of intentionality that led to the &#8220;voice&#8221; in the first place could also contribute to an increasing sense of its specificity and reality. We can thus see how a &#8220;hallucination&#8221; might evolve into a &#8220;delusion.&#8221; Nevertheless, neither term is really adequate to the experience. It is not that one first takes something to be &#8220;here, now,&#8221; in an unproblematic way, given that the relevant experience is unlike ordinary sensory experiences. Furthermore, where a more encompassing sense of reality has been altered, one does not simply accept or reject the deliverances of experience in the form of beliefs, given that one no longer distinguishes what is the case from what is not the case, or what is &#8220;here, now&#8221; from what is &#8220;not here, now,&#8221; in the way one once did. Hallucination and delusion therefore involve kinds of intentionality that differ from perception and belief.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Despite this complication, it is easy enough to maintain a rough distinction, along conventional lines, between a hallucination and a delusion of VH/TI. Both may be ambivalent in certain respects, different from everyday perceptions and beliefs, but the delusional case at least involves <i>some kind of acceptance</i> that the experiential content emanates from elsewhere, from a personal source that can be variably specific in nature. This acceptance is also oddly recalcitrant to revision, in a way that <i>taking something to be the case</i> is more usually not. If that much is accepted, then it also seems plausible to suggest that a TI description of the experience lends itself to a delusional interpretation more so than a VH description. Saying that one &#8220;hears a voice&#8221; serves to express an anomalous experience but does not operate as an explanation of it (unless one further insists that the experience is a veridical one). However, TI includes more specific reference to causes. So it is less likely to be used as a noncommittal description of an experience, and more likely to operate as an explanation or interpretation: &#8220;I have the anomalous experience <i>because</i> B is inserting thoughts in my head.&#8221; That said, the same phenomenon could equally be construed in terms of &#8220;other people really speaking in my head,&#8221; and a TI description does not <i>imply</i> endorsement of a TI explanation. So it would be wrong to insist that TI descriptions invariably involve a greater degree of acceptance than VH descriptions. Chapter 6 will further problematize the delusion&#8211;hallucination distinction, through a consideration of wider-ranging disturbances in the modal structure of experience. In so doing, it will also address the kind of <i>certainty</i> that attaches to delusional beliefs, and show how it is inextricable from the way in which a person experiences and relates to others in general.</p>
			<div><a id="part5"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">3.5 </span>Agency and Ownership</p>
			<p class="TxNI">As noted earlier in this chapter, one way to make sense of TI without accepting that it involves a radical error of identification or a weakening of the self&#8211;world boundary is to distinguish between experiences of <i>subjectivity</i> and <i>agency </i>(Stephens and Graham 2000) or <i>ownership</i> and <i>agency</i> (Gallagher 2005). The claim is that we experience ourselves as the owners of our thoughts; they arise <i>within</i> the boundaries of our subjectivity. We also experience ourselves as the agents of our thoughts; we <i>think them</i>. An inserted thought is experienced as produced by another agency, one that uses one&#8217;s own mind as a medium in which to think. So one owns the thought but is not the agent behind it. I will conclude the chapter by suggesting that this distinction does not illuminate the nature of TI (although I do not seek to reject the distinction outright; it may well be informative in other contexts), and showing how my approach dispenses with the need for talk of retaining ownership and losing agency.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The agency&#8211;ownership distinction could be applied to an intentional state, its content, or both: I am the agent and/or owner of intentional state <i>x</i> and/or its content <i>p</i>. In one sense, experienced ownership of an intentional state implies ownership of its content. In short, if I experience myself as perceiving, then I experience myself as having a perception of something. And, if I experience myself as thinking, then I experience myself as having a thought about something. Even in the case of TI, one takes oneself to be having an experience with some content. What is anomalous is not that the experiential content is disowned but that it is taken to be non-self-generated, when contents of that kind are more usually self-generated. However, there is another sense in which one does <i>not</i> take oneself to own what is experienced. Bortolotti and Broome (2009, 208) ask whether you can really be said to own something that you feel so &#8220;radically alienated&#8221; from.<sup><span id="n3-13"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-13">13</a></span></sup> And the answer is that you do not experience yourself as owning the inserted <i>thought</i> any more than you experience yourself as owning a chair in virtue of looking at it (where &#8220;ownership&#8221; is understood in terms of something&#8217;s falling within one&#8217;s psychological boundaries). What you <i>do</i> own, however, is an experience of that thought content, an experience of its originating from elsewhere. By analogy, when you hear someone say &#8220;I hate you,&#8221; you have an experience that includes the content &#8220;I hate you,&#8221; a content that you might be said to &#8220;own.&#8221; But, just as the experience of a chair can be distinguished from the actual chair, experience of the utterance can be distinguished from the actual utterance. In both cases, there is a sense that what one experiences is non-self-produced. This is all that talk of continued ownership conveys: one has an experience of <i>p</i>, but it is an experience of <i>p</i>&#8217;s originating in an external source. &#8220;I own <i>p</i>&#8221; is just another way of saying &#8220;I am not the agent that produced <i>p</i>; I merely experience <i>p</i>.&#8221; It therefore adds nothing to the view that TI involves a lack of experienced agency.<sup><span id="n3-14"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-14">14</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Should we just say, then, that TI involves experiencing content <i>p</i> with no associated sense of agency, the result being a perception-like experience? That&#8217;s not very helpful either. Perception, like thought, can involve a sense of agency; it is not a wholly passive process. We actively look, we listen, we interact with our surroundings, and we physically manipulate objects in order to reveal their hidden features. As various enactivist approaches to perception have emphasized, perception is a matter of exploratory activity (e.g., No&#235; 2004). And we need not endorse one or another enactivist position in order to accept the less committal view that perceptual experience involves varying degree of agency, rather than passive receipt of sensory information. Of course, it should be added that we do not experience ourselves as wholly responsible for the <i>contents</i> of our perceptions. Whatever theory of perception might be adopted, it seems fair to say that we experience the contents of our perceptions as largely determined by things external to ourselves. So perceptual experience might involve some sense of agency, but we do not attribute our perceptual contents to our own agency. Whether or not you see a table depends on where you turn your head, but it is the presence of a table that ensures you see a table and not a rose bush when you do turn your head in a given direction. Perceptual contents are experienced as environmentally dependent in this way whereas thought contents are not. Hence the claim needs to be more specific: although perceiving and thinking can both involve a sense of agency, thought <i>contents</i> are experienced as dependent on our agency to a degree or in a way that perceptual contents are not.</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, it is not at all clear what the relevant <i>experience of agency</i> is supposed to consist of or when it is present. The experience of &#8220;having the thought that <i>p</i>&#8221; is not a singular one, and encompasses various cases that seem to involve little or no awareness of agency. One might struggle to think through a philosophical problem and, in the process, experience a coherent stream of thought as self-generated and effortful. But the song that suddenly, unexpectedly, and effortlessly pops into one&#8217;s head is quite different, as are occasional and uncomfortable thoughts that do not cohere with one&#8217;s own values, such as &#8220;Why not punch him on the nose to see how he reacts?&#8221; Such thoughts can arise unannounced and even be surprising, but this need not interfere their being experienced as unambiguous instances of thought. More generally, intentional states are experienced with varying degrees of agency. You might try to remember something or actively think through the details of a past situation, piecing the various events together in a coherent way. Alternatively, you might remember something in a much more passive, spontaneous way, the content of which has little bearing on your current concerns. The point similarly applies to imagining. Ordinarily at least, the degree of activity or passivity associated with the arrival of an experiential content has little or no bearing on your prereflective appreciation of it as a content of perception, imagination, memory, or current inner speech. So it is not clear why the <i>phenomenological</i> difference between having the thought that <i>p</i> and having an experience of <i>p</i> as emanating from elsewhere should be attributable to the presence or absence of a sense of agency. All we have so far is this: when you experience an intentional state of type <i>x</i>, the content of <i>x</i> is experienced as self-produced, and when you experience an intentional state of type <i>y</i>, the content of <i>y</i> is experienced as non-self-produced.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Of course, matters hinge on what we take a sense of agency to consist of. Given that the kinds of intentional state I am concerned with here can all involve varying degrees of effort, intention, and conscious anticipation, &#8220;agency&#8221; could be taken to refer to something else instead. But the most plausible candidate is just the sense that an experiential content is self- rather than non-self-produced, whatever that sense might consist of. And this just amounts to a redescription of the phenomenon we are seeking to account for. In TI, a thought content is experienced in a perception-like way. In other words, it is experienced as having arisen from elsewhere, as non-self-produced. To understand the nature of this experience, we need to address what the senses of perceiving and thinking actually consist of, and show how a sense of perceiving might come to be associated with a thought content. Couching this in terms of agency involves either restating the problem in such a way as to leave the relevant phenomenology wholly unclear, or appealing to a kind of agency-experience that is intramodally variable, shared by different modalities of intentionality, and does not distinguish the sense of thinking something from the sense of perceiving something.<sup><span id="n3-15"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f3-15">15</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Where nonlocalized changes in the modal structure of intentionality are concerned, I am more sympathetic to the view that something along the lines of a diminished sense of agency is implicated. As chapters 4, 5, and 6 will argue, an all-enveloping experience of passivity and disengagement from the social world can diminish a person&#8217;s general grasp of the distinction between things being or not being present or the case. This then renders her vulnerable to more localized anomalous experiences, including VH/TI. Even so, it remains unhelpful to claim that these experiences arise due to the loss of an episodic awareness of agency that more usually contributes to an experience of thinking and serves to identify it as such.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I allow that experiences of agency do at least contribute to the <i>attitudinal</i> phenomenology of intentional states. Nevertheless, they are not responsible for the sense of being in one or another type of intentional state. The prereflective, wholly unproblematic appreciation of being in an intentional state of whatever type is compatible with varying degrees of experienced agency. Furthermore, it is not clear that there is anything more to the specifically <i>attitudinal</i> phenomenology of an intentional state. Perhaps there is but, even if so, it is not responsible for the sense of being in one kind of intentional state rather than another. As will become clear in chapter 5, the principal constituents of sense do not conform to a distinction between attitude and content. Experiential content is also a contributing factor. In cases of anomalous experience, content can come into conflict with these other constituents and is sometimes overridden by them (as in the case of VH/TI). But this gives us all we need to account for the sense of being in a given type of intentional state. There is no role left for an additional, exclusively attitudinal ingredient to play.</p>
			<p class="Tx">To summarize, chapter 2 raised the possibility that the sense of being in a given type of intentional state can be accounted for in a simple way, by appealing to type-specific experiential content. However, in this chapter, we have seen that an appeal to characteristic experiential content is inadequate, and cannot account for the phenomenology of VH/TI. The difference between thinking that <i>p</i> and perceiving that <i>p</i> cannot be wholly attributable to different contents, as VH/TI involves something that resembles thought content but at the same time seems to come from elsewhere. Furthermore, appealing to the presence or absence of a sense of agency does not serve to illuminate the phenomenon.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Chapter 4 will develop an account of how such experiences come about and what they consist of, an account that does not appeal to the sense of agency. Being in a perception-like relationship to thought contents is sometimes described in terms of a <i>feeling</i> of their coming from elsewhere: &#8220;They do not feel as if I thought them the way normal thoughts do. They came from elsewhere, be it some other mind or some other force. &#8230; In general the main identifier of voice-hearing, or other things that aren&#8217;t my own thoughts, is simply that they do not feel as if they came from me&#8221; (7). It is this feeling that I seek to clarify. I will argue that it centrally involves a change in the <i>anticipatory</i> structure of experience, and that this structure makes a substantial contribution to the sense of being in one or another type of intentional state.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
