<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_333" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="notes"/></div>
			<p class="FBH">Notes</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">1 </span>Introduction</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f1-1"><a href="10594_001.xhtml#n1-1">1.</a></span> For current purposes, &#8220;intentional state&#8221; is a term of convenience, and does not imply any commitment to experience having a &#8220;state-like&#8221; character. One could equally refer to &#8220;intentional attitudes&#8221; or simply &#8220;kinds of intentionality.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f1-2"><a href="10594_001.xhtml#n1-2">2.</a></span> By &#8220;content,&#8221; I mean simply &#8220;what is experienced and how it appears,&#8221; such as &#8220;a cup as experienced visually.&#8221; Hence it is a fairly noncommittal phenomenological notion, rather than something that implies commitment to &#8220;mental representation&#8221; in one or another guise. Despite philosophical baggage associated with the term &#8220;content,&#8221; I still find it helpful, insofar as it serves to emphasize what is experienced and how it appears, as opposed to other aspects of experience that might be postulated, such as the act of experiencing itself, or constituents of experience that may not fit neatly into either category. One could of course adopt a conception of content according to which phenomenology, or phenomenology alone, does not serve to specify or fully specify content. As with nonphenomenological conceptions of intentionality, I do not want to rule out such an approach, but I restrict my inquiry to what the phenomenology does include.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f1-3"><a href="10594_001.xhtml#n1-3">3.</a></span> Elsewhere, I have adopted a philosophical method that is more explicitly anchored in the phenomenological tradition. It draws, in particular, on work by Husserl and Heidegger, and centrally involves my own (somewhat liberal) interpretation and endorsement of the &#8220;phenomenological reduction&#8221; (Ratcliffe 2008; 2015). What I do here is compatible with that approach but does not demand it.</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f1-4"><a href="10594_001.xhtml#n1-4">4.</a></span> See, e.g., Gallagher and Zahavi 2008 for discussion of various accounts of how interaction between phenomenology and cognitive science should proceed.</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">2 </span>Schizophrenia and Selfhood</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f2-1"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-1">1.</a></span> Because the term &#8220;minimal self&#8221; refers to an inextricable aspect of experience, rather than an isolable entity or &#8220;thing,&#8221; I tend to write &#8220;minimal self&#8221; rather than &#8220;<span class="I">the</span> minimal self.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-2"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-2">2.</a></span> The &#8220;minimal self&#8221; account of schizophrenia complements a much larger body of literature in phenomenological psychopathology, which has accumulated over the past century. A consistent theme is that schizophrenia involves a global change in the structure of experience, one that is both qualitatively different from and more profound than the kinds of disturbance associated with other psychiatric diagnoses. That view is broadly consistent with the earliest descriptions of dementia praecox/schizophrenia offered by Emil Kraepelin and Eugen Bleuler. Both identify a family of disease processes, all characterized by a disruption of self-experience involving pervasive changes in perception, emotion, thought, and agency. According to Kraepelin (1919, 3), there is a &#8220;peculiar destruction of the internal connections of the psychic personality,&#8221; while Bleuler (1950, 9) refers to a &#8220;splitting of the psychic functions,&#8221; where &#8220;the personality loses its unity.&#8221; The tradition of phenomenological psychopathology has further emphasized and elaborated on the theme of a profound shift in the sense of self, something that is taken to be inextricable from experience of the surrounding world, other people, one&#8217;s body, and one&#8217;s thoughts, perceptions, emotions, and activities. The &#8220;minimal self&#8221; view is consistent with this wider tradition. For references to complementary themes in earlier phenomenological writings, see, e.g., Sass 2001 and Fuchs 2012.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-3"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-3">3.</a></span> Sass, for instance, acknowledges that self-disorder is not exclusive to schizophrenia, and also occurs in conditions such as depersonalization syndrome. However, he adds that there is something distinctive and more profound about changes in the sense of self that arise in schizophrenia; they involve an &#8220;erosion&#8221; or &#8220;dissolution&#8221; of &#8220;first-person perspective&#8221; to the extent that &#8220;self and other can seem fused or confused&#8221; (Sass 2014a, 8).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-4"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-4">4.</a></span> Others have offered complementary descriptions of loss of self. For example, &#8220;the real &#8216;me&#8217; is not here any more. I am disconnected, disintegrated, diminished. Everything I experience is through a dense fog, created by my own mind, yet it also resides outside my mind. I feel that my real self has left me, seeping through the fog toward a separate reality, which engulfs and dissolves this self&#8221; (Kean 2009, 1034).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-5"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-5">5.</a></span> The proximity claim does not apply to all cases, and the extent of its applicability depends on what the content of perceptual experience is taken to consist of. If we can correctly be said to <i>hear something exploding</i>, then we can perceive some things through audition that are a considerable distance away. Similarly, if it is right to say that we can <i>see a star</i>, rather than first seeing something and then conceiving of it in those terms, vision is not a proximity sense either. In the latter case, it can be added that what we perceive need not be present, as the light takes millions of years to reach us. However, even if that were allowed, we <i>experience</i> something or other as present, and it is this experience of perceptual presence that concerns me here.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-6"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-6">6.</a></span> It is questionable whether or how our phenomenology is sensitive to more refined distinctions, such as that between physical, metaphysical, and logical possibility.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-7"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-7">7.</a></span> Although the question is phrased contrastively, the relevant achievement need not take that form. It could be that I take myself to be perceiving, pure and simple. That I am &#8220;not remembering&#8221; is implied by this, rather than integral to it.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-8"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-8">8.</a></span> See, e.g., Strawson 2004, for an outright dismissal of the view that intentionality can be treated independently of experience. Horgan and Tienson (2002) also argue that the two are inseparable. They go so far as to maintain that there is a kind of intentionality that is constituted entirely by its phenomenology. My view is not so strong. Where we are concerned with organisms that do have experiences <i>of</i> things, I agree that a complete separation of intentionality and phenomenology is untenable. In such cases, I take it that the phenomenology is sufficient for being in some type of intentional state, but that it is not always sufficient to determine which type of intentional state one is in.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-9"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-9">9.</a></span> See the essays in Bayne and Montague 2011 for several different positions concerning the existence and nature of cognitive phenomenology. See also Breyer and Gutland 2016 for a collection of essays that bring the cognitive phenomenology debate into dialogue with work in the phenomenological tradition.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-10"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-10">10.</a></span> See also Roessler 2013 for the point that phenomenological approaches have failed to explain how global changes in the structure of experience generate certain more specific symptoms. A similar criticism applies to a whole family of &#8220;self-monitoring&#8221; accounts, which propose that AVHs arise due to failure of a mechanism that ordinarily monitors and self-ascribes inner speech (e.g., Frith 1992). Such accounts have not explained why the relevant disruption is both sporadic and content specific.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-11"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-11">11.</a></span> For details of the Hearing Voices Network, see <a href="http://www.hearing-voices.org/">http://www.hearing-voices.org/</a>. For Intervoice, see <a href="http://www.intervoiceonline.org/">http://www.intervoiceonline.org/</a>. Both sites last accessed on February 23, 2016.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-12"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-12">12.</a></span> The Hearing Voices Movement is critical of terms such as &#8220;psychosis,&#8221; &#8220;delusion,&#8221; and &#8220;auditory hallucination,&#8221; on the basis that they can stigmatize people and exacerbate emotional distress. The terms &#8220;hearing voices&#8221; and &#8220;having unusual beliefs&#8221; are suggested as alternatives (Romme and Escher 2012, 1). I continue to use the term &#8220;AVH&#8221; here, partly because it is established in much of the literature to be addressed, but also because one of my aims is to progressively reveal the inadequacy of this term, at least if it is construed as an informative way of <i>describing</i> the range of phenomena to which it refers. To say that something is an AVH tells us very little about what the relevant experience consists of and serves in some cases to mislead.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-13"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-13">13.</a></span> However, I complicate this view in chapters 4 and 7, by suggesting that it is sometimes not possible to separate the experience of something <i>as</i> an AVH from associated distress. Furthermore, there may be no fact of the matter as to when a voice has <i>gone</i> and when it is <i>still present but no longer distressing</i>. The same phenomenological change could be described in either of these ways.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-14"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-14">14.</a></span> Others have defended a similar position. For example, Andrew, Gray, and Snowden (2008) claim that trauma influences beliefs about voices, which in turn cause distress. So the voices cause distress only if the voice-hearer responds to them in a particular way, one that is contingent and malleable.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-15"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-15">15.</a></span> Given the emphasis on interpreting voices in terms of unpleasant life events from which a person has emotionally dissociated herself, this approach shares obvious similarities with earlier conceptions of multiple personality disorder. Indeed, in some of the hearing voices literature, one need only substitute the term &#8220;voice&#8221; for &#8220;personality.&#8221; Hence it is arguable that similar concerns apply to both approaches. Work on multiple personality disorder fell into disrepute when therapists began unearthing stories of historical abuse that could not possibly have been true (see, e.g., Hacking 1992 for a discussion). We can add to this a further concern: if, as I go on to argue, some of these phenomena involve erosion of the boundaries between intentional state types, some voice-hearers may be particularly vulnerable to confusion between memories and imaginings. This is not to discredit the approach or to dismiss testimonies of abuse, many of which are highly credible. But what it does suggest is that the presumption of abuse on the part of a therapist would be highly problematic, as would uncritical attempts to seek out histories of abuse. With that in mind, I have serious misgivings about how testimonies were obtained by Romme et al. (2009, 321&#8211;322). They asked respondents to report only the &#8220;benefits&#8221; of the &#8220;accepting voices approach,&#8221; thus taking for granted that there are benefits and also steering them away from mentioning any shortcomings or negative effects. More worrying still is the fact that the authors supplied an &#8220;example&#8221; to help people prepare their own responses. It refers to sexual abuse in the third line and then, in the second paragraph, dismisses orthodox psychiatry as unsympathetic and pharmacologically driven. It would not be uncharitable to view this as an instruction manual, telling people what to say. Sure enough, most of the fifty detailed first-person accounts included in the book refer to similar themes. Even so, many other sources point to a connection between AVHs and histories of interpersonal trauma (see, e.g., the essays collected in Larkin and Morrison 2006). I address this connection further in chapters 5 and 6.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-16"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-16">16.</a></span> See also Ratcliffe 2007, chapters 5 and 6, for a discussion of the nature of second-person experience, in childhood and in adulthood.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-17"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-17">17.</a></span> In suggesting that introspective access to experience is unable to arbitrate here, this approach is consistent with Schwitzgebel (2008), who raises a number of concerns about the reliability of what he calls &#8220;introspective&#8221; access to our own mental states.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-18"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-18">18.</a></span> See also Macpherson 2013 for a clear discussion of various philosophical approaches to perception, including forms of disjunctivism.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f2-19"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-19">19.</a></span> See also Allen 2015, who addresses how a mistaken imaginings account of hallucination might complement a disjunctivist theory of perception.</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f2-20"><a href="10594_002.xhtml#n2-20">20.</a></span> Gerrans (2014) also offers an account of delusions that questions the applicability of a belief&#8211;imagination distinction. He suggests that there is no fact of the matter over whether delusions are beliefs or imaginings. Rather than worrying about which category to put them in, we should get on with the task of providing a mechanistic account of the relevant phenomena. Once we have that, the issue of whether to label them as beliefs or imaginings will quite rightly seem unimportant. Gerrans&#8217;s positive proposal appeals to the &#8220;default mode network,&#8221; a cognitive system that &#8220;represents personally relevant information as narrative elements,&#8221; which are sometimes but not always synthesized into larger narratives (xv). He suggests that delusions occur when the default mode network responds to certain kinds of salient information in a way that is not supervised by &#8220;decontextualized processing&#8221; (xix). I am sympathetic to Gerrans&#8217;s insistence that we figure out what is actually going on, rather than worrying about what we should label as a belief. Although he is largely concerned with nonconscious mechanisms while I seek to address the associated phenomenology, our approaches are also potentially complementary in some respects. For instance, it could well be that some or all changes in the modal structure of intentionality are associated with changes in the functionality of the default mode network. However, as I will argue in chapter 6, more emphasis on the interpersonal and the social is also needed in order to understand these phenomena. They cannot be satisfactorily accounted for by appealing exclusively to what happens inside brains.</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">3 </span>Thought Insertion Clarified</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f3-1"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-1">1.</a></span> But see No&#235; 2012 for one recent philosophical discussion of perception that emphasizes presence. No&#235; also acknowledges that experiences of presence can differ qualitatively, as well as quantitatively. We can, he writes, &#8220;speak of the <i>modality</i> or <i>quality</i> of presence, as opposed merely to its intensity or degree&#8221; (34).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-2"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-2">2.</a></span> See Dorsch 2010 for a recent attempt to catalog the &#8220;reality characteristics&#8221; distinctive of perceptual experience, by drawing on the work of Aggernaes et al. See also Farkas 2013 for a recent discussion of Aggernaes&#8217;s criteria.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-3"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-3">3.</a></span> Elsewhere, Graham (2004, 96) does state more specifically that TI concerns the &#8220;phenomenology of thinking.&#8221; The &#8220;activity&#8221; of thinking, he suggests, is ascribed to someone else. For two discussions of TI that explicitly distinguish between episodes of thinking and thought contents, see Roessler 2013 and Vosgerau and Voss 2014.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-4"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-4">4.</a></span> Another advantage of this interpretation is that it points to a clear distinction between the kinds of alienation-experience involved in TI and in obsessive-compulsive thoughts. To speculate, in the case of compulsive thoughts, the person cannot stop herself thinking about something and feels alienated from acts of thinking that are to varying degrees estranged from her own agency. Even so, experiencing thought processes as distressing and somehow outside of her control involves continuing to recognize them as thought processes. So this is quite unlike the alienation of TI, which involves a content seeming to emanate from elsewhere because there is <i>no</i> experience of thinking it.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-5"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-5">5.</a></span> See also Austin 1962, whose work Sarbin (1967) draws on, for a discussion of problems involved in specifying the meaning of the word &#8220;real&#8221; in different situations.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-6"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-6">6.</a></span> As Langland-Hassan (2008, 373) remarks, &#8220;patients may be using normal modes of expression in a rough-and-ready way, in order to communicate the nature of experiences that do not fall neatly into any preexisting category.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-7"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-7">7.</a></span> The study was conducted as part of the Wellcome Trust&#8211;funded project &#8220;Hearing the Voice&#8221; in 2013, by several members of the project. It received ethical approval from the Durham University Philosophy Department Research Committee. Study design was closely modeled on earlier work addressing the phenomenology of depression (for details, see Ratcliffe 2015). Participants were recruited via a number of advertisements and invited to provide free-text responses to several questions about voices and voice-like experiences. Respondents quoted in this book reported having the following psychiatric diagnoses: schizophrenia (8, 32, 34, 37); schizoaffective disorder (9, 33, 35, 38); borderline personality disorder (1, 3, 4, 6); dissociative identity disorder (2, 5, 36); post-traumatic stress disorder (21, 22); psychosis (unspecified) (7, 10, 12, 15); bipolar disorder (17, 19, 20, 25, 28); major depression (6, 18, 23, 27, 30, 31). Nineteen of these respondents self-identified as female (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 28, 30, 35, 37), nine as male (1, 8, 9, 12, 25, 31, 32, 33, 34), and three as other (15, 36, 38). There were no restrictions on who could participate in the study, and potential responses thus encompassed anything that a participant might interpret in terms of &#8220;hearing voices&#8221; or having &#8220;voice-like&#8221; experiences. Given this breadth, one could not hope to assemble a cohesive account that accommodated all testimonies, and I instead draw on them selectively.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-8"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-8">8.</a></span> See also Ratcliffe (2015, chap. 1) for a detailed discussion of the methodological issues to be kept in mind when interpreting and drawing on testimonies of this kind.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-9"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-9">9.</a></span> Billon (2013, 306) makes the complementary observation that TI is &#8220;somehow akin&#8221; to being perceptually presented with sentences or images. But he offers an account according to which inserted thoughts, unlike thoughts more generally, are not &#8220;phenomenally conscious.&#8221; TI, he suggests, involves having a conscious experience of something that is not itself part of one&#8217;s consciousness and thus appears alien to it. While I maintain that TI involves experiencing one&#8217;s thoughts in a perception-like way, I do not attribute this to a lack of &#8220;first-order phenomenology.&#8221; Rather, it is a matter of taking oneself to be intentional state <i>x</i>, rather than <i>y</i>. As we will see in chapter 4, this can be accounted for without appealing to a distinction between phenomenally conscious and unconscious thoughts.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-10"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-10">10.</a></span> See also Aleman and Lar&#248;i 2008, 48&#8211;49, for a discussion of AVHs in deaf people.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-11"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-11">11.</a></span> See also Garrett and Silva 2003, 453, for the suggestion that VHs involve &#8220;a new category of experience that blends elements of perception and thought but remains distinct from both.&#8221; However, they continue to emphasize the sensory qualities of VHs, whereas I do not.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-12"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-12">12.</a></span> See also Sass 2014b for a detailed discussion of double-bookkeeping, which acknowledges that there can be different types of deviation from the sense of reality or presence.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-13"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-13">13.</a></span> The view that TI involves intact ownership in the absence of agency is also challenged by de Haan and de Bruin (2010), who argue that agency and ownership are inseparable and that both are diminished in TI.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f3-14"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-14">14.</a></span> Here, I am in agreement with Sousa and Swiney (2013, 644), who adopt a similarly deflationary account of ownership. Talk of &#8220;ownership,&#8221; they note, can have all sorts of different connotations. Where TI is concerned, it is another way of saying that one is not the agent of the thought: &#8220;The patient is simply emphasizing via the language of thought ownership that she does not have the sense of being the producer (&#8216;source&#8217;) of the thoughts.&#8221; See Gallagher 2015 for a response to several criticisms of the agency&#8211;ownership distinction and for further clarification of his own view. So far as I can see, his various responses and refinements do not pose a challenge to my own concerns about the agency&#8211;ownership distinction as applied to TI, even though they may amount to a case for its applicability elsewhere.</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f3-15"><a href="10594_003.xhtml#n3-15">15.</a></span> Recent contributions to the discussion of agency and ownership/subjectivity in TI have further complicated the distinction. For instance, Maiese (2015) distinguishes subjectivity from ownership on the basis that one can have an intact sense of subjectivity in the absence of both agency and ownership, where ownership involves the experience of a thought arising within a wider affective context. Martin and Pacherie (2013) similarly distinguish ownership from subjectivity, while Vosgerau and Voss (2014) distinguish agency from authorship and seek to understand TI in terms of an ownership&#8211;authorship distinction. My claim that the original distinction is uninformative in the case of TI applies equally to such refinements, revisions, and elaborations. TI simply concerns the kind of intentional state one takes oneself to be in, not whether one is the agent, subject, author, or owner of that state, regardless of how those terms might be understood. In appealing to one and then another distinction, there is the risk of incessantly describing and redescribing the phenomenon in ways that distract from the task of understanding it.</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">4 </span>Voices of Anxiety</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f4-1"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-1">1.</a></span> See, e.g., Glas 2003 for a detailed discussion of differing clinical conceptions of anxiety.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-2"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-2">2.</a></span> Hence what I address here is not to be identified with &#8220;anxiety&#8221; (<span class="I">Angst</span>) in the more specific Heideggerian sense of the term. I am not in any way concerned with Heidegger here. For a detailed discussion of Heidegger on anxiety, see Ratcliffe 2013b.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-3"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-3">3.</a></span> It has become something of a commonplace in the VH literature to observe that &#8220;voices&#8221; do not just occur in psychiatric illness and that many nonclinical, healthy subjects have them too (e.g., Watkins 2008; McCarthy-Jones 2012, chap. 7). However, we should be wary of claims to the effect that VHs in clinical and nonclinical populations are very similar or even phenomenologically indistinguishable. Stanghellini at al. (2012) note that studies are seldom sufficiently attentive to potential phenomenological differences, and argue that detailed first-person descriptions in fact point to quite different kinds of experience. Henriksen, Raballo and Parnas (2015) also discuss various differences between VHs in schizophrenia and in healthy subjects. However, although they insist that certain kinds of VH are <i>schizophrenia specific</i>, they do not address, in any detail, the similarities and differences between those VHs associated with schizophrenia and those associated with other psychiatric diagnoses. The kinds of experience described in this chapter are certainly not specific to schizophrenia, but they are associated with profound changes in the structure of experience, as well as considerable distress. So, even when they do occur in the absence of a psychiatric diagnosis, they are not to be regarded as unproblematic, healthy experiences. I allow that other kinds of experience, which might similarly be described in terms of &#8220;hearing a voice,&#8221; are more plausibly benign. Some of these are discussed in chapter 7.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-4"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-4">4.</a></span> Paulik, Badcock, and Maybery (2008) make the weaker claim that anxiety alone does not cause VHs but can exacerbate them, by interfering with an already compromised ability to suppress intrusive cognitions. In chapters 5 and 6, I also appeal to an additional factor: a weakening of the wider-ranging modal structure of intentionality. However, on my account, this is equally a matter of social anxiety and estrangement.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-5"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-5">5.</a></span> For a more detailed discussion of the relevant mechanisms and their roles in motor prediction and control, see, e.g., Frith, Blakemore, and Wolpert 2000. In their words, &#8220;whenever a movement is made, a motor command is generated by the CNS and a predictor estimates the sensory consequences of that motor command.&#8221; They add that a &#8220;controller&#8221; matches the &#8220;desired state&#8221; with the &#8220;motor command required to achieve that state&#8221; (1772). These mechanisms, they suggest, have a range of functions, including compensating for the effects of movements, distinguishing self-generated movements from other movements, and reducing dependence on sensory feedback in action-guidance by relying on anticipatory processes.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-6"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-6">6.</a></span> The signal is often referred to as a &#8220;corollary discharge&#8221; and/or &#8220;efference copy.&#8221; These terms are sometimes used as synonyms or near synonyms. However, other accounts draw a clear distinction between them. For example, Fletcher and Frith (2009, 50) define the efference copy as &#8220;an internal copy of a motor signal that can be used to predict the sensory consequences of the movement,&#8221; while the corollary discharge is an &#8220;estimate of sensory feedback that is derived from the internal copy of the motor signal (the efference copy).&#8221; So the efference copy contains the information that a given action is about to occur, and the corollary discharge then predicts the sensory changes that the action will bring about.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-7"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-7">7.</a></span> This objection was first raised by Akins and Dennett (1986), against an account proposed by Hoffman (1986).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-8"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-8">8.</a></span> Gallagher&#8217;s account also includes a more detailed discussion of temporal experience, which appeals to the work of Edmund Husserl and, more specifically, the concepts of &#8220;protention&#8221; and &#8220;retention&#8221; (e.g., Husserl 1991). In chapter 5, I draw on some related themes in Husserl&#8217;s later writings. Gallagher associates protention with a sense of agency and retention with a sense of ownership. I argued in chapter 3 that the agency-ownership distinction is uninformative here, a view that is consistent with my discussion in this chapter. While Gallagher appeals to a <i>loss</i> of protention and thus a loss of experienced agency, I argue that VH/TI involves alteration of the short-term anticipatory (or &#8220;protentional&#8221;) structure of experience, rather than loss.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-9"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-9">9.</a></span> The analogy is made more compelling by the observation that the somatic and affective components of pain are dissociable (Grahek 2007; Radden 2009, chap. 7). The sense of alienation I have described is attributable to the latter. See also Scarry 1985 for a discussion of the &#8220;undeniability&#8221; of pain.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-10"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-10">10.</a></span> Even so, we should not be too hasty in identifying the contents of VHs with &#8220;inner speech.&#8221; Fernyhough (2004) rightly places the emphasis on &#8220;inner dialogue,&#8221; rather than simply &#8220;speech,&#8221; but it is also important to distinguish inner dialogue with ourselves from imagined dialogue with others. One person I spoke with informally told me how his anomalous experiences sometimes began with imagined interpersonal interactions, and that the imagined parties gradually developed a kind of autonomy, a life of their own. It could well be that some of those experiences labeled as VHs involve imagined interactions with others rather than inner dialogue. Even if it is admitted that inner dialogue also involves imagination, the point still applies: the two different forms of imagination need to be distinguished. See also Ratcliffe 2007, chap. 6, for the point that, when we imagine others, we tend not just to imagine them and what they will do but, rather, our interactions with them.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-11"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-11">11.</a></span> In fact, in his response to commentaries, Hoffman (1986, 542) acknowledges that VHs can cause distress and increase &#8220;arousal.&#8221; He adds that &#8220;these increases in arousal could cause further disruptions in discourse planning and VHs. Thus, causality may be circular and difficult to tease apart.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-12"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-12">12.</a></span> My account of an increasingly determinate experience of thought content can be contrasted with assumptions that philosophers sometimes make about the phenomenology of thought. For instance, Tye and Wright (2011, 342) state that thought contents &#8220;do not <i>unfold</i> over time in the way that an event like a cricket match unfolds. Once one begins to think that claret is delightful, one has already <i>achieved</i> the thinking of it.&#8221; However, they conceive of the unfolding of a thought as akin to the progressive unraveling of a sentence, and this is a mistake. It can instead be construed as a process whereby content becomes more specific and perhaps more coherent. While Tye and Wright conclude that there is a phenomenology of thinking but no phenomenology of thought content, we can instead take one aspect of the phenomenology of thinking to be the progressive resolution of thought content, something that involves a distinctive kind of anticipatory structure.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-13"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-13">13.</a></span> Although the account I have sketched here is a phenomenological one, I am at least open to the possibility that nonconscious anticipation of thought content could also trigger anxiety and contribute to a subsequent experience of that content as alien.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-14"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-14">14.</a></span> Birchwood et al. (2000) suggest that the distress associated with VHs is attributable to one&#8217;s &#8220;relationship&#8221; with the voice rather than to the voice per se. I maintain that the two are inextricable. The sense of alienation from one&#8217;s own thoughts, memories, or imaginings is constituted by a certain kind of anticipatory structure, a way of relating to a thematic content as it arises and while it lasts. Chapter 7 will address cases where a voice is said to persist in the context of a very different kind of relationship, where it is not dreaded but welcomed, and where what it &#8220;says&#8221; is benevolent or even supportive rather than distressing.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-15"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-15">15.</a></span> The claim that VH contents are anxiously anticipated is consistent with the finding that VHs are associated with heightened &#8220;self-focus&#8221; (Allen et al. 2005).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-16"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-16">16.</a></span> This account is taken from a response to another questionnaire study, on experiences of depression. The study was conducted in 2011 as part of the AHRC- and DFG-funded project &#8220;Emotional Experience in Depression.&#8221; This respondent reported a diagnosis of severe depression with hypermanic traits. For full details of the study, see Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 1.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-17"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-17">17.</a></span> See also Bortolotti and Broome 2009.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-18"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-18">18.</a></span> Some of the other responses to the questionnaire study introduced in chapter 3 also mention experiencing an echo, but I am not aware of any research addressing this aspect of the experience. An interesting avenue of enquiry would be to explore the prevalence of &#8220;echoes&#8221; in VH experiences, especially internal VHs of the kind described here, and to see whether all reports of echoes can be understood as follows: one <i>feels</i> something before it is manifested in a more determinate, linguistic way.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f4-19"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-19">19.</a></span> My position is therefore consistent with the view that the difference between external, audition-like VHs and internal, thought-like VHs is a matter of degree, and that the term &#8220;VH&#8221; accommodates a spectrum of experiences (Humpston and Broome 2016).</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f4-20"><a href="10594_004.xhtml#n4-20">20.</a></span> Interestingly, Sass (1992, 434, n. 100) does entertain the possibility that schizophrenia may be an &#8220;arousal disorder&#8221; that involves anxiety, rather than an information-processing disorder. He also speculates on how this might account for the kinds of experience he addresses. In so doing, he refers to the work of Gjerde (1983), who seeks to account for the symptoms of schizophrenia in terms of high levels of arousal that influence attention, impacting on a wide range of cognitive tasks. For Gjerde, there is an underlying, nonspecific &#8220;deficit in attentional capacity&#8221; (1983, 62).</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">5 </span>Trauma and Trust</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f5-1"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-1">1.</a></span> Radden (2011, xv) suggests that &#8220;delusions&#8221; are better regarded as a &#8220;heterogeneous assemblage,&#8221; and that accounts such as Jaspers&#8217;, which involve a &#8220;bulwark of central cases,&#8221; are therefore problematic. I agree with her view, and at no point do I claim to address all of those phenomena that might be labeled as &#8220;delusions.&#8221; I further suggest, in chapter 6, that what Jaspers calls &#8220;delusional atmosphere&#8221; is itself heterogeneous in character. The point applies equally to hallucinations and their wider phenomenological context.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-2"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-2">2.</a></span> See also Henriksen 2013 for a recent discussion of incomprehensibility in schizophrenia.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-3"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-3">3.</a></span> Here, I am in complete agreement with Sass (e.g., 2014b) in maintaining that delusional atmosphere is not phenomenologically intractable. See also Ratcliffe 2013a; 2015, chap. 10.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-4"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-4">4.</a></span> Definitions of torture are contested. According to the Istanbul Protocol, it involves inflicting mental or physical suffering in order to punish, intimidate, obtain information, or extract a confession, and a public official must be implicated. It may involve punishment for something the victim or someone else has done, where the aim is to punish the victim and/or punish somebody else who cares about the victim. Others reject the &#8220;public official&#8221; condition as too restrictive. For instance, Kenny (2010) instead emphasizes the &#8220;instrumentality&#8221; of torture: suffering is intentionally caused in order to elicit a behavioral response, in a situation where the torturer has control over the victim. See Peters 1996 for several different definitions of torture.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-5"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-5">5.</a></span> As suggested by ICD-10, in such cases it is &#8220;unnecessary to consider personal vulnerabilities in order to explain its profound effect on the personality&#8221; (World Health Organization 1992, 209).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-6"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-6">6.</a></span> Hence we can distinguish, among other things, between individual and shared trauma&#8212;between those traumatic events that are endured alone and those that are suffered alongside others, sometimes by whole communities or cultures. There may also be significant cultural differences in the experiences themselves and how they are narrated (see, e.g., Kirmayer 1996). I focus primarily on the case of individual trauma, where suffering is inflicted on a specific individual, although much of what I will say about loss of trust, security, and confidence applies more widely as well.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-7"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-7">7.</a></span> Exactly how this happens is debatable, and the aim here is to describe the resulting experience rather than to offer a precise account of the mechanisms via which it occurs. The victim might well form explicit judgments to the effect that &#8220;the interpersonal world is not as I took it to be,&#8221; which in turn influence her overall style of anticipation. However, it is unlikely that the change in anticipatory style occurs solely via this route. In other situations, conflicts between explicit evaluative judgments and anticipatory style are commonplace. For example, someone who is bitten by a dog may then experience dogs as menacing and unpredictable, despite knowing full well that the incident was anomalous. The point applies equally to the more profound and pervasive effects of interpersonal trauma.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-8"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-8">8.</a></span> For example, Jones (2004, 6) offers the following analysis of three-place trust: &#8220;Trust is accepted vulnerability to another person&#8217;s power over something that one cares about, where (1) the truster forgoes searching (at the time) for ways to reduce such vulnerability, and (2) the truster maintains normative expectations of the one-trusted that they do not use that power to harm what is entrusted.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-9"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-9">9.</a></span> See also Baier 1986, Stolorow 2007, 2011, and Bernstein 2011 for complementary descriptions of what I have called &#8220;one-place trust.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-10"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-10">10.</a></span> Experiences of depression are often described in these terms too. See Ratcliffe 2015 for a detailed discussion.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-11"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-11">11.</a></span> Alternatively, belief could be distinguished from an affective, practical responsiveness that usually accompanies it. For example, Gendler (2008) distinguishes &#8220;belief&#8221; from what she calls &#8220;alief.&#8221; Those who accept such a distinction can say that B believes that <i>p</i> and that, following the traumatic event, B also comes to alieve that <i>p</i>.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-12"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-12">12.</a></span> As Corb&#237; (2012, 55) observes, a &#8220;certain kind of awareness of some facts, deeper than mere knowledge of them, seems to be required to account for the conditions under which our confidence in the world may be lost.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-13"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-13">13.</a></span> Husserl refers to actions in the service of perception as &#8220;kinaestheses&#8221;: &#8220;We call these movements, which belong to the essence of perception and serve to bring the object of perception to givenness from all sides insofar as possible, kinaestheses&#8221; (1948/1973, &#167;19, p. 84).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-14"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-14">14.</a></span> This perceptual process is often referred to in terms of Merleau-Ponty&#8217;s theory of &#8220;maximal grip,&#8221; and Husserl is seldom acknowledged (see, e.g., Dreyfus 2002).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-15"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-15">15.</a></span> See Ratcliffe 2015, chaps. 2 and 3, for a more detailed discussion and defense of this point.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-16"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-16">16.</a></span> No&#235; (2012, 45) uses the term &#8220;style&#8221; in a similar way, in suggesting that perception and thought are distinctive &#8220;<span class="I">styles</span> of access to what there is.&#8221; However, he does not identify a <i>global style</i>, which the styles of the various intentional state types presuppose and depend on for their integrity and distinctness. Neither does he provide a detailed account of what the characteristic styles of different intentional state types consist in. He emphasizes only that perception and thought involve different kinds of skillful, practical access. This does not suffice to account for an experience such as VH/TI, which involves a quasi-perceptual experience of thought content, of a kind that does not involve skillful, exploratory activity resembling that associated with one or another sensory modality. Hence a more nuanced account of perceptual presence is needed.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-17"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-17">17.</a></span> See also Morley 2003 for an interesting discussion of Merleau-Ponty on the overall style of experience or &#8220;perceptual faith.&#8221; Morley also relates disturbances of this aspect of experience to the phenomenology of psychiatric illness.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-18"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-18">18.</a></span> See also Scarry 1985 for a sustained argument to the effect that the aim of torture is not to interrogate but to destroy a person. For a comprehensive and convincing critique of the view that torture is an effective means of interrogation, see Costanzo and Gerrity 2009.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-19"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-19">19.</a></span> Extended periods of solitary confinement can similarly involve subversion of a habitual anticipatory style. The person is deliberately starved of kinds of interpersonal relation that were previously taken for granted, and the only kind of social relation that remains is one of powerlessness in the face of an individual or collective that deliberately inflicts harm (Guenther 2013).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f5-20"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-20">20.</a></span> This testimony is taken from a questionnaire study, which was conducted as part of AHRC- and DFG-funded project &#8220;Emotional Experience in Depression.&#8221; The respondent had diagnoses of depression and PTSD. See Ratcliffe 2015, chap. 1, for further details of the study.</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f5-21"><a href="10594_005.xhtml#n5-21">21.</a></span> This is not to suggest that all Husserl&#8217;s writings are consistent in this respect or that everything he says corresponds to the view advocated here.</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">6 </span>Intentionality and Interpersonal Experience</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f6-1"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-1">1.</a></span> Maclaren (2008, 79) describes the effect as follows: &#8220;When perceiving another, the other&#8217;s intentionality sweeps us up and turns us away from the person herself, and towards that which she intends. To see her is to see <i>through her</i> towards the thing with which she is engaged. Her intentionality is, in other words, not itself an object of perception so much as a self-effacing directive.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-2"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-2">2.</a></span> We might speculate on the repercussions of this for a family of approaches to VH/TI discussed in chapter 4, according to which the experience arises due to a breakdown of nonconscious anticipation. On a strong reading of the claim that one&#8217;s own actions and those of others share a common functional architecture, a predictive mechanism would in fact be unable to distinguish self from nonself even when functioning properly, and so its breakdown could not account for misattribution of source. However, the problem can be avoided by maintaining that a mechanism for anticipating and compensating for the effects of action is common to both, but that a separate &#8220;I am initiating an action&#8221; signal is specific to the first-person case. This is consistent with Frith (2012), who suggests that delusions and hallucinations are specifically attributable to failure of a &#8220;predictive&#8221; component, rather than to a component that matches predicted with actual effects.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-3"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-3">3.</a></span> When one person experiences a situation as <i>ours</i>, rather than just <i>mine</i>, this does not imply that the two parties do in fact experience it in much the same way. The point is that they shape each other&#8217;s experience of the surrounding environment and that some aspects of it are <i>experienced as shared</i>, as significant to <i>us</i> in one or another way.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-4"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-4">4.</a></span> These observations (and also my discussion of grief in chapter 7) complement the view that human experience can involve a form of &#8220;<span class="I">plural pre-reflective self-awareness</span>&#8221; (Schmid 2014, 7). Things are first encountered as salient <i>to us</i> in one or another way, rather than to me and/or you.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-5"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-5">5.</a></span> Interpersonal experience in schizophrenia has been described in these terms. In some cases, others appear exclusively in the guise of a threat to the self, something that prohibits purposive engagement with shared situations and leaves a person feeling passive, helpless (see, e.g., Laing 1960). Lysaker, Johannesen, and Lysaker (2005) associate the theme of intersubjectivity as threat to an inability to maintain the integrity of &#8220;internal dialogue.&#8221; Although the details differ, my account of VH/TI in chapter 4 is consistent with the suggestion that a change in the structure of interpersonal experience plays a role in disrupting inner dialogue: anxious anticipation of one&#8217;s own thoughts, which constitutes a sense of alienation from them, corresponds to one&#8217;s relationship with the social world as a whole.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-6"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-6">6.</a></span> This is consistent with Gerrans&#8217; (2014) suggestion that delusions arise when the products of &#8220;default thinking&#8221; are accepted without intervention from decontextualized cognitive processing. However, I would construe this &#8220;processing&#8221; in social rather than exclusively individual terms. When isolated from certain kinds of relation with other people, one is also isolated from certain kinds of critical process and from an appreciation of when these processes are appropriate. So estrangement from other people is partly responsible for a disposition toward uncritical acceptance.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-7"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-7">7.</a></span> William James (1897, 24) offers the following insightful remarks: &#8220;A social organism of any sort whatever, large or small, is what it is because each member proceeds to his own duty with a trust that the other members will simultaneously do theirs. Wherever a desired result is achieved by the co-operation of many independent persons, its existence as a fact is a pure consequence of the precursive faith in one another of those immediately concerned. A government, an army, a commercial system, a ship, a college, an athletic team, all exist on this condition, without which not only is nothing achieved, but nothing is even attempted.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-8"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-8">8.</a></span> Colombetti and Krueger (2015) base their discussion on Sterelny&#8217;s (2010) more general account of how cognition is &#8220;scaffolded&#8221; by environmental resources that are reliably configured so as to support the development and maintenance of certain abilities.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-9"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-9">9.</a></span> Although my discussion focuses on psychiatric illness, the effects of prolonged solitary confinement are also consistent with what I have said here. There is a difference between being forcibly denied a certain kind of interpersonal relation and experiencing the world as bereft of the possibility of that kind of relation. Nevertheless, the former could lead to the latter, to a progressive change in a person&#8217;s sense of the kinds of interpersonal relation offered by the world. Guenther (2013) thus maintains that solitary confinement threatens &#8220;the most basic sense of identity&#8221; (xi). Other people, she says, more usually &#8220;support our capacity to make sense of the world, to distinguish between reality and illusion, to follow a train of thought or a causal sequence, and even to tell where our own bodily existence begins and ends&#8221; (146). In solitary confinement, a person&#8217;s sense of the distinction between her body and her surroundings can break down, and she may have difficulty distinguishing waking from dreaming. However, there is a methodological difficulty here, as it is hard to tease apart the effects of interpersonal privation and more general sensory deprivation.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-10"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-10">10.</a></span> This passage was first inserted into the fourth edition, published in German in 1946.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-11"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-11">11.</a></span> This observation complements Sass&#8217;s analysis, according to which delusional utterances sometimes originate in forms of experience that involve loss of a public reality and thus a quasi-solipsistic predicament (e.g., Sass 1994).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-12"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-12">12.</a></span> References to Wittgenstein refer to the text rather than to the year of publication (<span class="I">On Certainty</span>: OC; <i>Philosophical Investigations</i>: PI) and to passage numbers rather than page numbers.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-13"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-13">13.</a></span> Hamilton (2014), in contrast, warns that we should not &#8220;exaggerate the role of &#8216;non-propositional&#8217; certainty&#8221; in Wittgenstein&#8217;s text (100). Nevertheless, he endorses, and attributes to Wittgenstein, a very permissive conception of &#8220;proposition.&#8221; So the extent of substantive disagreement between his claim that hinges are &#8220;still somehow propositions&#8221; (118) and a refusal to ascribe them propositional status is not so clear.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-14"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-14">14.</a></span> This account of traumatic experience and, more specifically, traumatic memory is compatible with descriptions that emphasize changes in the structure of temporal experience, in the sense of what it is for something to be past, present, or future. For example: &#8220;Experiences of emotional trauma become freeze-framed into an eternal present in which one remains forever trapped, or to which one is condemned to be perpetually returned. &#8230; In the region of trauma, all duration or stretching along collapses; past becomes present, and future loses all meaning other than endless repetition&#8221; (Stolorow 2011, 55).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-15"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-15">15.</a></span> See Kirmayer 1996 for a wider-ranging discussion of trauma, dissociation, and narrative, which describes various relationships between traumatic events, memory, narrative, and culture.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-16"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-16">16.</a></span> See also Gallagher 2009b for an interesting application of James and Schutz on multiple realities to the topic of delusional reality. He writes: &#8220;It seems quite possible that one can enter into a delusional reality just as one can enter into a dream reality, or a fictional reality, or a virtual reality. Like other multiple realities, some delusional realities are ones that are <i>more or less</i> cut off from one&#8217;s everyday reality&#8221; (255). He also notes that the delusional person may have trouble withdrawing from these realities. We can add that there is a distinction to be drawn between the contents of these realities and the kinds of intentionality involved. One does not simply take something to be the case in the context of a delusional reality. The reality itself involves taking things to be the case in a distinctive way.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-17"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-17">17.</a></span> For instance, symptoms of war trauma can be mitigated or exacerbated by the attitudes, narratives, and interpretive resources of a person&#8217;s community (Hunt 2010).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-18"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-18">18.</a></span> See also Whitfield et al. 2005 and Kelleher et al. 2013 for discussion of the link between childhood trauma and hallucination.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-19"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-19">19.</a></span> Morgan and Gayer-Anderson (2016) raise a number of methodological concerns about some of the studies claiming to demonstrate a connection between childhood adversity and psychosis in later life. Even so, they concede that the balance of evidence points to a link between adversities, especially &#8220;multiple adversities involving hostility and threat,&#8221; and &#8220;psychotic disorder&#8221; (93).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-20"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-20">20.</a></span> Drawing on Merleau-Ponty, Morley (2003) develops the view that psychiatric illness and, more specifically, hallucination can involve an inability to accept or &#8220;surrender to&#8221; a degree of indeterminacy that is integral to perceptual experience, something that involves a loss of trust or confidence.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-21"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-21">21.</a></span> What I have said is also in keeping with responses to traumatic experience that emphasize the need to start by re-establishing interpersonal trust. For instance, Herman (1997) describes three broad stages of recovery: a localized sense of safety is first nurtured, after which the person can attempt to construct a narrative around what has happened, and finally there is reengagement with communal life. In a similar vein, Fonagy and Allison (2014, 372) state that effective therapy involves nurturing a trusting relationship that allows the client to &#8220;relinquish the rigidity that characterizes individuals with enduring personality pathology&#8221; and thus the &#8220;relearning of flexibility.&#8221; See also Janoff-Bulman 1992 for an emphasis on the substantial role that social support has to play and for distinctions between various complementary forms of social support.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-22"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-22">22.</a></span> See also Stanghellini 2004 for a discussion of the phenomenology of schizophrenia that emphasizes loss of common sense.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-23"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-23">23.</a></span> An experience along these lines would be consistent with recent formulations of the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia, which emphasize wide-ranging salience dysregulation (e.g., Kapur 2003; Kapur, Mizrahi, and Li 2005). But see also Kendler 2015 for a critique of the hypothesis in its various guises. What I have suggested also complements a phenomenological account offered by Wiggins and Schwartz (2007), according to which a breakdown of Husserlian passive synthesis generates instability and unpredictability.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-24"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-24">24.</a></span> Borda and Sass (2015) and Sass and Borda (2015) provide a detailed, nuanced account of the heterogeneity of schizophrenia and the potential roles played by multiple interacting causes. They make a complementary distinction between &#8220;primary&#8221; and &#8220;secondary&#8221; contributing factors, suggesting that one or the other can play a more prominent role in a given case. Cases where onset is early and negative symptoms predominate owe more to primary factors, while secondary factors play a more substantial role in acute, later-onset cases where positive symptoms are more prominent. Further discussion is needed of how the distinction between primary and secondary factors relates to the distinction between impersonal and interpersonal causes, given that both kinds of cause are operative in early and in later life, and are likely to have different effects at different life stages.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-25"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-25">25.</a></span> See also Rooney et al. 1996 for a study of short- and long-term reactions to voluntary and involuntary hospital admission. They note that a patient&#8217;s response to involuntary detention is not always negative, and that initially negative views may become more positive over time. Even so, there was often a &#8220;significant reduction&#8221; of self-esteem, and 57 percent of involuntary patients reported initial feelings of anger, frustration, fear, and bewilderment.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-26"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-26">26.</a></span> Watson et al. (2006) also discuss how conceptions of illness can shape and exacerbate symptoms. They remark that &#8220;negative illness perceptions in psychosis are clearly related to depression, anxiety and self-esteem. These in turn have been linked to symptom maintenance and recurrence&#8221; (761).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-27"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-27">27.</a></span> See, e.g., Sass 1992, chap. 2).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-28"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-28">28.</a></span> The point also applies more generally. For example, de Haan and Fuchs (2010) present two case studies of patients who they take to have impairments of minimal self. Both patients have a history of interpersonal problems. In one case, the parents divorced when the patient was eight years old. He lived with his abusive father and started drinking, then lost contact with his father at the age of eighteen, having already lost contact with his mother, and smoked pot. The other patient was living in social isolation at the time in question. He was born in Iran, moved to Germany with his family at sixteen, and lived in a hostel for asylum seekers in conditions that he regarded as degrading. He had trouble relating to other children at school and made no friends. While de Haan and Fuchs state that the &#8220;basic self&#8221; is &#8220;first and foremost a bodily and social or &#8216;intercorporeal&#8217; self&#8221; (328), they do not attempt to relate the patients&#8217; self-disturbances to their biographies. Doing so, I suggest, can provide us with a richer understanding of what the relevant phenomenological disturbances consist of and how they come about.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f6-29"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-29">29.</a></span> For a detailed philosophical treatment of predictive coding, see also Hohwy 2013.</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f6-30"><a href="10594_006.xhtml#n6-30">30.</a></span> See Seth, Suzuki, and Critchley 2012 for an attempt to account for the sense of perceptual presence in terms of predictive processing and prediction error. They also relate heightened interoceptive prediction error to anxiety.</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">7 </span>Varieties of Hallucination</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f7-1"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-1">1.</a></span> See also Romdenh-Romluc 2007, Morley 2003, and Giorgi 2003 for discussions of Merleau-Ponty on hallucination.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-2"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-2">2.</a></span> See McCarthy-Jones 2012, chap. 6, for a detailed discussion of cross-cultural factors, as well as the religious contexts in which some voices arise and are interpreted. Watkins (2008) also provides a wide-ranging discussion of historically and culturally diverse &#8220;voices.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-3"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-3">3.</a></span> Hoffman et al. (2008) offer the complementary suggestion that some people seldom think in words and describe their thoughts in terms of a voice when they do. Experiencing a &#8220;voice&#8221; in this sense is quite different from experiencing a voice-content as alien due to anxious anticipation.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-4"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-4">4.</a></span> The issue of whether and how experiences of &#8220;typical&#8221; grief are to be distinguished from depression is a difficult one, and a number of conflicting positions have been proposed. See Ratcliffe in press for an attempt to draw a very general, phenomenologically based distinction.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-5"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-5">5.</a></span> One might therefore wonder how we are to distinguish grief from mourning. The distinction is no doubt an untidy one. In the case of mourning, there is greater emphasis on rituals and on other culturally established public displays. However, once grief is construed as a socially regulated process, rather than an episodic emotion, I am doubtful that the distinction can be sustained. At most, it serves to emphasize different aspects of a singular process.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-6"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-6">6.</a></span> See, e.g., Parkes, Laungani, and Young, 1997, for discussions of cultural differences in expressions and experiences of grief.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-7"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-7">7.</a></span> Carse (1981, 5) thus describes acute grief as a &#8220;cosmic crisis,&#8221; which involves living &#8220;in a universe that makes no sense.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-8"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-8">8.</a></span> Goldie (2011, 131) suggests that grief has a narrative structure that resembles free indirect speech, a literary device exploiting the difference between internal and external perspectives on a situation: &#8220;In grief, you might well remember the last time you saw the person you loved, not knowing, as you do now, that it was to be the last time. And this knowledge will infect the way you remember it.&#8221; The external perspective thus serves to reshape the internal perspective. Slipping in and out of a world that presupposes the deceased can be construed in terms of a gradual process of revision and reconciliation of perspectives. This need not culminate in a world that is no longer shaped by one&#8217;s relationship with the deceased. Things may continue to be experienced as mattering in the ways they do in light of how one once related to her and, indeed, how one continues to think about and relate to her (Klass, Silverman, and Nickman 1996).</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-9"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-9">9.</a></span> See also Hazan and Shaver 1987 for the claim that romantic love is an attachment process, comparable in many respects to infant attachment and involving analogous forms of dependence on another person.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f7-10"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-10">10.</a></span> See, e.g., Zahavi 2007 and Ratcliffe 2012 for recent discussions of empathy that develop the kind of approach advocated by Stein.</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f7-11"><a href="10594_007.xhtml#n7-11">11.</a></span> An interesting issue for further inquiry is that of whether and to what extent explicit beliefs about life after death serve to insulate a person from or otherwise shape such experiences.</p>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">8 </span>Metaphilosophical Conclusion</p>
			<p class="NtNTf"><span id="f8-1"><a href="10594_008.xhtml#n8-1">1.</a></span> See Braithwaite 1932&#8211;1933, 132, for a classic statement of the view that beliefs are dispositions. The view that beliefs are occurrences is associated with Hume (1740/1978). Armstrong (1973) argues that belief is a nonconscious state, as opposed to a disposition, and that occurrent belief is a manifestation of that state rather than a belief in its own right. The term &#8220;occurrent belief&#8221; is usually associated with awareness, but it is also arguable that there are nonconscious occurrent beliefs, where a disposition is manifested in current behavior but without awareness.</p>
			<p class="NtNTm"><span id="f8-2"><a href="10594_008.xhtml#n8-2">2.</a></span> Kusch (2011) takes Wittgenstein to be advocating a similar position in his &#8220;Lectures on Religious Belief,&#8221; according to which religious convictions can involve &#8220;extraordinary&#8221; belief, a type of attitude that differs from &#8220;ordinary&#8221; belief. As the belief that <i>p</i> and the belief that not <i>p</i> can involve these different types of conviction, there is the possibility of what Kusch calls &#8220;non-standard faultless disagreement&#8221; between the two. It is likely, I suggest, that belief encompasses many subtly different kinds of attitude, rather than just an <i>ordinary</i> attitude that can be contrasted with an <i>extraordinary</i> one.</p>
			<p class="NtNTl"><span id="f8-3"><a href="10594_008.xhtml#n8-3">3.</a></span> See also Reimar 2010 for a discussion of several similarities between delusions and some philosophical beliefs, such as the lack of a clear relationship between belief and action, other than where an action takes the form of asserting or defending the belief in question.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
