<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_004" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="chap4"/></div>
			<p class="CT">4 Voices of Anxiety</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In the previous chapter, I argued that VHs (verbal hallucinations), of the kind that can also be described in terms of TI (thought insertion), are disturbances in the structure of intentionality rather than nonveridical but unambiguously perceptual experiences. The content of these experiences is unlike that of an auditory perception or a perception in any other sense modality, and yet they still incorporate a <i>sense of perceiving</i>. In this chapter, I develop an account of what that sense consists of. My account challenges orthodox approaches to VHs, in suggesting that they do not arise out of a lack of conscious or nonconscious anticipation, but are instead constituted by a certain <i>way</i> of anticipating one&#8217;s own thought contents as they coalesce. I focus principally on internal VHs with unpleasant contents, such as abuse, threats, and disturbing commands. These are frequently associated with heightened anxiety, and it has been hypothesized that anxiety is not only caused by VHs but somehow implicated in their production as well. The main task of the chapter is to show <i>how</i> anxiety induces VHs. Anxiety, I propose, is most centrally a type of <i>affective anticipation</i>, and affective anticipation contributes to the sense of being in one or another kind of intentional state. Ordinarily, we do not anxiously anticipate the arrival of our own thoughts. When we do, the result can be a quasi-perceptual experience of thought content. Hence a dynamic perspective is required, according to which anxiety precedes a full-blown VH experience and is partly <i>constitutive</i> of the ensuing experience. My phenomenological analysis implies that anxiety also has a <i>causal</i> role to play in the production of VHs, and thus has implications for nonphenomenological, mechanistic accounts as well.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I go on to argue that anxiety is equally implicated in the generation of many external VHs (which more closely resemble veridical perceptions), but that these arise via a different process. Other VH experiences, which fall somewhere in between the categories of &#8220;external, auditory&#8221; and &#8220;internal, nonauditory,&#8221; involve combinations of the two processes. Further diversity is accommodated by acknowledging that the category &#8220;internal VH&#8221; encompasses different kinds of modal confusion: the sense of perceiving could attach to a memory, to an imagining, or to inner speech. The chapter concludes by observing that VHs of these kinds generally occur against a backdrop of wider-ranging social anxiety and estrangement from other people, something that amounts to a shift in the person&#8217;s overarching <i>style of anticipation</i>. So my position is not simply that anxious anticipation of thought contents results in quasi-perceptual experiences, but that it can do so in the context of wider-ranging phenomenological changes, which are themselves to be understood in terms of anxiety and social isolation.</p>
			<div><a id="part1"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">4.1 </span>Anxiety</p>
			<p class="TxNI">VHs are often accompanied by social anxiety, along with a pervasive sense of estrangement from other people. It is unsurprising that social anxiety tends to be associated with some degree of social withdrawal: someone who anticipates social situations with feelings of dread, or experiences most or even all other people as threatening, will be likely to retreat from social situations and feel disconnected from others even when in their presence (Hoffman 2007). This chapter emphasizes the role of social anxiety; the sense of isolation will become a more prominent theme in chapters 5 and 6. </p>
			<p class="Tx">In addressing how social anxiety contributes to VHs, I should first make clear how &#8220;anxiety&#8221; is to be understood here. In clinical contexts, anxiety is conceived of in a number of different ways, both currently and historically.<sup><span id="n4-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-1">1</a></span></sup> More generally, the term can refer to various kinds of experience, some of which have specific thematic contents, while others are more diffuse and wide-ranging. For current purposes, a rough characterization will suffice, and I do not wish to insist on clear-cut distinctions between anxiety, fear, dread, and the like. Anxiety is, most centrally, a form of affective anticipation, something that is inextricable from how one&#8217;s current surroundings appear salient. How one experiences the present is shaped by a sense of what is to come; one anticipates the arrival of something that is somehow dangerous and threatening to oneself. Associated with this is an experience of passivity before it; one cannot avoid it, resist it, or shield oneself from its effects. This kind of anticipation might be associated with the arrival of a specific event, but it can also be much wider-ranging, a pervasive way of experiencing the interpersonal and/or impersonal world.<sup><span id="n4-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-2">2</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Anxiety, I further maintain, consists primarily in a kind of bodily feeling. Elsewhere, I have argued at length that most or even all bodily feelings are not just experiences <i>of</i> the body. It is <i>through</i> our feeling bodies that we experience the significance and salience of our surroundings. Various felt bodily dispositions, such as feeling drawn to explore something, pick it up, or retreat from it, are inextricable from an experience of that entity as significant in one way or another&#8212;as immediately relevant in the context of a project, offering the possibility of pleasure, obstructing what one is doing, posing a threat, and so forth (see, e.g., Ratcliffe 2008, 2015). This chapter is concerned principally with experiences of anxious anticipation that are directed toward something specific. However, I also acknowledge that such experiences are generally embedded in and shaped by a background of nonlocalized anxiety. Chapter 5 will explore that background in more detail and, in the process, further clarify the relationship between anxious anticipation and bodily experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">To begin with, I address the relationship between anxiety and those VH experiences that involve disturbances in the structure of intentionality. Later in the chapter, I show how an emphasis on anxiety can also account for at least some external, audition-like VHs. Until chapter 7, the discussion is limited to VHs with distressing thematic contents, such as repeated insults, threats, terms of abuse, and distressing commands. As Aleman and Lar&#248;i (2008, 33) observe, voices &#8220;may insult and criticize the patient, tell the patient to do something unacceptable &#8230; or threaten the patient.&#8221; According to numerous studies, the majority of &#8220;voice-hearers&#8221; have this kind of VH experience, often only this kind. For example, Nayani and David (1996, 182&#8211;186) found that &#8220;the most commonly encountered hallucinated utterances,&#8221; experienced by 60 percent of their subjects, were &#8220;simple terms of abuse,&#8221; and that &#8220;vulgar expletives&#8221; were most common, while Leudar et al. (1997) report that 53 percent of their subjects heard abusive voices, and that abusive voices were especially prevalent among those diagnosed with schizophrenia.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Although VHs with distressing contents are often associated with schizophrenia, they also arise in several other psychiatric conditions, including post-traumatic stress disorder, psychotic depression, bipolar disorder, and borderline personality disorder, as well as in nonclinical subjects (Johns et al. 2014; Upthegrove et al. 2016). First-person reports of abusive, insulting, or threatening voices in these populations have much in common (Aleman and Lar&#248;i 2008, p.78).<sup><span id="n4-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-3">3</a></span></sup> In what follows, I offer an account of VHs that is consistent with their diagnostic nonspecificity. The proposal is that they arise due to pronounced and pervasive social anxiety, of a kind that is common to several psychiatric conditions. However, this is not to imply that the VHs associated with different psychiatric diagnoses are all exactly alike or that diagnostic categories have no discriminatory power at all. It may be possible to tease out subtle differences between these experiences that track, at least to some degree, different diagnoses. Nevertheless, my aim here is to describe something that they share: a disturbance in the anticipatory structure of experience. This disturbance, I argue, constitutes the experience of thought as perception-like.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It is easy to see why VHs, especially those with unpleasant contents, might be accompanied by anxiety and also depression, given that such experiences can be very distressing. However, anxiety and depression frequently arise before the onset of VHs, and anxiety is particularly prevalent among voice-hearers in both clinical and nonclinical populations (Allen et al. 2005; Kuipers et al. 2006; Paulik, Badcock and Maybery 2006). It is important to distinguish two observations: (a) generalized anxiety is present before the onset of VHs; and (b) there is heightened anxiety immediately before and during VH experiences. Social anxiety is predictive of schizophrenia diagnoses, and it has been proposed that the frequent presence of depression and anxiety before the onset of psychotic symptoms points to a causal role for affective disturbances (Broome et al. 2005). Moreover, there is evidence to suggest that anxiety, more so than depression, is specifically associated with &#8220;positive symptoms&#8221; such as VHs (Freeman and Garety 2003). Anxiety may also be more directly implicated in the generation of VHs. According to Delespaul, de Vries, and van Os (2002, 97, 101), it is the &#8220;most prominent emotion during hallucinations,&#8221; and level of anxiety is the &#8220;strongest predictor of hallucination intensity.&#8221; Others have hypothesized that heightened anxiety both triggers VHs and shapes their contents, although the mechanism remains unclear (Freeman and Garety 2003).<sup><span id="n4-4"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-4">4</a></span></sup> That view is consistent with first-person descriptions of the emotions that immediately precede VHs. For example:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Usually when I hear auditory hallucinations I am upset about something, my body is in a heightened state of alertness and sometimes even in fight or flight mode.&#8221; (2)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;It&#8217;s worse when I&#8217;m stressed, anxious or scared.&#8221; (3)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;When I am feeling anxious they grow stronger. When I am alone as the day goes on they get stronger.&#8221; (6)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Fear, unsafety &#8230; not knowing.&#8221; (19)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Loneliness, depression, anxiety, feeling unloved, deserted, uncared for.&#8221; (28)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Anxiety, usually when overly tired or stressed.&#8221; (34)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Of course, the fact that VHs often arise in a context of social anxiety and are immediately preceded by heightened anxiety does not, in itself, imply a causal relationship. It can be added that treating the anxiety often leads to a reduction in VH frequency and severity, thus lending further support to the view that anxiety plays a causal role (Kuipers et al. 2006, 28). Nevertheless, the question of <i>how</i> anxiety might cause VHs remains open. In the remainder of this chapter, I develop a specifically phenomenological or personal-level account, according to which a sense of alienation from one&#8217;s own thought contents is constituted by anxiety, in a way that equally implies a causal relationship. This account also has significant implications for subpersonal, mechanistic theories of how VHs come about.</p>
			<div><a id="part2"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">4.2 </span>Anticipation</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Most attempts to explain the occurrence of VH and/or TI focus on nonconscious or &#8220;subpersonal&#8221; processes, rather than exploring the associated phenomenology in any depth. However, to provide a subpersonal account that is relevant to a given phenomenon, we need at least some appreciation of what that phenomenon actually consists of and thus what needs explaining. A problem for any account of VH-generating mechanisms is that the phenomena in question are diverse, something that is not always sufficiently acknowledged. Indeed, the broad categories of &#8220;internal and nonauditory&#8221; and &#8220;external and auditory&#8221; VHs are so different from each other that there are no grounds for supposing that the same mechanism underlies both, and section 4.4 of this chapter will argue that it does not. Nevertheless, my interpretation of internal VHs in chapter 3 (to be further developed in what follows) is at least consistent with the predominant view that VHs occur owing to a failure of &#8220;source monitoring.&#8221; This view, which operates as a premise for more specific mechanistic accounts of VHs, maintains that they involve a failure to discriminate between &#8220;self-generated and external sources of information&#8221; (Bentall 1990, 82). It is supported by several sources of evidence, all of which indicate that those who experience VHs have a more general tendency to misattribute self-generated experiential contents to external sources. For instance, they are more likely than others to misattribute self-generated words in certain memory tasks, to ascribe their own speech to others when it is played back to them, and to report false positives when asked to detect signals in noisy environments (Bentall and Varese 2013).</p>
			<p class="Tx">This is compatible with the proposal that VHs involve both localized and more general disturbances of intentionality. A quasi-perceptual experience of thought content could also be described in terms of a failure to clearly distinguish something internally produced from something externally produced. However, an emphasis on the modal structure of intentionality gives us a more specific account of what the relevant experience consists of, and thus of what it is that requires explanation. In the case of an internal VH, misattribution of source occurs when an ordinarily unproblematic sense of perceiving as distinct from thinking, imagining, and/or remembering, is disrupted. So the &#8220;misattribution&#8221; is integral to the experience, and does not require the subject to adopt a complementary belief about the origin of experiential content. Neither does it imply a subjective inability to distinguish anomalous experiences involving source confusion from mundane perceptual experiences. A subpersonal account of the neurobiological mechanisms involved in generating the experience should be consistent not only with the phenomenologically noncommittal observation that source is misattributed but also with the more specific phenomenology. In this way, phenomenological research can serve to guide and also constrain mechanistic accounts, a point I will return to in chapter 6.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Although the position I will develop here is compatible with the claim that VHs involve a failure of source monitoring, it conflicts with a more specific and highly influential account of <i>how</i> the failure arises. This account maintains that VHs occur because of a breakdown of predictive processes that ordinarily accompany the generation of thought and, more specifically, inner speech. The idea is that mechanisms involved in thought production resemble, in relevant respects, those at work in bodily action and motor control. When we act (where &#8220;acting&#8221; is construed permissively, to include purposive actions, facial expressions, fidgeting, eye movements, and anything else that we might be said to do &#8220;voluntarily&#8221;), we ordinarily experience our actions as self-produced, and we readily distinguish them from bodily movements caused by external stimuli. For instance, a self-produced eye movement and its visual effects are experienced as quite different from an external force on the eye and associated disturbances of the visual field. Differences like this are plausibly explained in terms of subpersonal mechanisms that predict the generation of self-produced movement and then match anticipated consequences with what actually happens. In a mundane instance of self-initiated movement, both the movement and its sensory effects are predicted, and the actual effects match the predicted effects. However, when a movement is not anticipated or when its consequences depart substantially from what was anticipated, it is attributed wholly or partly to an external source.<sup><span id="n4-5"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-5">5</a></span></sup> Frith (1992) suggests that such a mechanism is also involved in the production of thought and speech. As a thought is generated, a signal is produced that predicts its occurrence. A comparator then matches the actual output with what was anticipated, registering any discrepancies.<sup><span id="n4-6"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-6">6</a></span></sup> Where (a) the initial &#8220;a thought is about to occur&#8221; signal is not produced or (b) there is a mismatch between what was anticipated and what actually happens, there is no experienced &#8220;intention&#8221; to think that thought. So the thought appears to be non-self-generated, as though it originated from elsewhere. In other words, it is experienced as VH or TI.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Frith&#8217;s original statement of the view faces several familiar objections. For instance, in cases of audition-like VH, the appeal to misplaced inner speech does not account for why voices have auditory qualities, why they are sometimes attributed to a particular person, or why they seem to emanate from a specific external location (e.g., Wu 2012). In addition, Frith&#8217;s account of the experience of thinking is phenomenologically implausible. He states that thinking, like other actions, &#8220;is normally accompanied by a sense of effort and deliberate choice as we move from one thought to the next,&#8221; and the hypothesized mechanism is supposed to underlie this experience of intention (Frith 1992, 81). However, it is far from clear that thought is ordinarily effortful or that thoughts are experienced as <i>deliberate choices</i>. Another objection is that the episodic and content-specific nature of VHs remains unaccounted for. Why is it not the case that all thoughts are experienced as voices or as inserted? It could be that the mechanism is sporadically disrupted, but this would not account for the thematic consistency of VHs (Gallagher 2005, chap. 8). There is also a lack of clarity over what, exactly, is anticipated. It cannot be the full content of the thought, as anticipating a thought with the content <i>p</i> would itself involve having a thought with the same content, which would itself need to be anticipated, leading to an infinite regress.<sup><span id="n4-7"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-7">7</a></span></sup> Another concern is that the mechanism appears redundant. While we need to distinguish our own actions from other bodily movements, we do not need to distinguish self-generated thoughts from non-self-generated thoughts, as all of our thoughts are self-generated.</p>
			<p class="Tx">More recent versions of the prediction-failure view address some of these concerns. For instance, Cahill and Frith (1996, 289) concede that the absence of an &#8220;I did it&#8221; tag is not sufficient to generate VHs. There must also be a prior vulnerability, in the form of a disposition to misattribute events of indeterminate origin to external sources:</p>
			<p class="E">We would like to suggest that in some schizophrenic patients who experience auditory hallucinations the (internal?) speech generation system is compromised in terms of a dysfunction in a &#8220;corollary discharge&#8221; system, which at a preconscious level leaves internally generated events unlabelled as such. This, coupled with a co-existing proclivity or propensity for (mis)attributing events to external agents results in the experience of auditory hallucinations.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">With this modification, there is no longer the pressure to account for <i>all</i> properties of VHs in terms of prediction failure. A further concession is that the relevant processes are wholly nonconscious and need not be associated with an explicit <i>intention</i> to think. And it has been added that these processes have potential functions, such as keeping thoughts on track (Campbell 1999). In recent writings, Frith also states that his earlier appeal to both an anticipatory process <i>and</i> a subsequent comparison process (which matches expected outputs with actual outputs) was misplaced. Instead, he suggests, delusions and hallucinations are specifically associated with failure of the &#8220;predictive component,&#8221; while &#8220;the retrospective component remains intact&#8221; (2012, 53). So the position we are left with is that failure of a subpersonal prediction mechanism is necessary but perhaps not sufficient for the generation of VH/TI.</p>
			<p class="Tx">One might think that, as the mechanism is nonconscious, a consideration of the associated phenomenology has little to contribute. However, such mechanisms are invoked to explain a type of experience, and they should at least be consistent with the nature of the experience in question. Otherwise, there is a risk not just of falsehood but of irrelevance. By analogy, an account of color perception that appealed to the mechanisms involved in smell would be beside the point. With that in mind, the widespread emphasis on prediction failure is problematic. Its phenomenological correlate is supposed to be a thought that is experienced as unanticipated, as coming out of nowhere, and the sense of alienation is attributed to this unpredictability. As Fletcher and Frith (2009, 56) put it, &#8220;an inner voice is unpredictable and therefore feels alien.&#8221; So, even without the claim that we <i>intend</i> our thoughts, a continuing assumption is that we more usually anticipate their arrival in some way.</p>
			<p class="Tx">While I agree that anticipation is central to an understanding how anxiety induces VHs, I propose that VHs are not attributable to a <i>lack</i> of anticipation but instead to <i>how</i> one anticipates. There are two objections to the orthodox emphasis on a lack of anticipation. The less problematic of these is that absence of conscious anticipation is not sufficient for VHs. Many thoughts arrive unannounced, such as a song that suddenly starts &#8220;playing in one&#8217;s head&#8221; or a seemingly random thought that does not cohere with the gist of one&#8217;s thinking and may also disrupt one&#8217;s train of thought. In response, perhaps even these thoughts are anticipated to at least some degree and therefore differ from VHs. It is difficult to arbitrate between conflicting phenomenological claims here. And, even if a complete lack of conscious anticipation is conceded for some thoughts, one could still insist that these thoughts are accompanied by nonconscious predictive processes, the absence of which makes a thought seem strange in some other way. But a more serious problem for the prediction-failure view is that lack of conscious anticipation is not necessary for VHs. In short, many voice-hearers <i>do</i> anticipate their voices, to the extent that they may be able to solicit a voice, dialogue with it, and predict the thematic content of what it will &#8220;say&#8221; next. In fact, it has been reported that a majority of voice-hearers are able to converse with their voices (e.g., Garrett and Silva 2003, 449). In one influential study, 51 percent of subjects stated that they had at least some control over their voices, 38 percent that they could initiate a voice, and 21 percent that they could stop a voice (Nayani and David 1996, 183). First-person reports vary considerably. Some say that they can anticipate their voices, some that they cannot, and some that they can do so on occasion. For example:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Although I can and sometimes do call them up by focusing my mind in a certain way &#8230; that only works in a very quiet environment where I am alone or won&#8217;t be disturbed by people.&#8221; (7)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Sometimes I know it&#8217;s more likely to happen because I start to feel a bit anxious but other times it comes from nowhere.&#8221; (3)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Sometimes, it&#8217;s like a wave and then I hear them.&#8221; (22)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Nevertheless, it is at least safe to assume that some voice-hearers anticipate some of their voices. Furthermore, VHs often involve prolonged, thematically consistent communications. So, even if they are not anticipated to begin with, anticipatory processes are at work while they occur. If a VH experience is generated by lack of anticipation, we might wonder why the whole episode is misattributed, rather than just an unanticipated, initial part of it. Sometimes, lengthier VH experiences also include structured dialogue: &#8220;I have won arguments (with them) before&#8221; (22). This similarly involves some sense of when a voice will respond and what it is likely to say. Thus, when we turn to the relevant phenomenology, a simple contrast between anticipating and failing to anticipate is unhelpful. Of course, prediction-failure accounts are concerned only with nonconscious processes. However, it is not clear how a conscious process involving some form of anticipation is to be accounted for by appealing to an associated nonconscious process that does not. It also seems reasonable to assume that any phenomenological or &#8220;personal-level&#8221; ability to predict the onset and content of a VH implies the existence of subpersonal prediction mechanisms, unless one wishes to concede that the phenomenology is wholly autonomous of the neurobiology, thus rendering the latter explanatorily redundant. I do not want to dismiss the prediction-failure view outright; that would be too hasty. But I do maintain that it needs to be refined and elaborated, so as to distinguish the kinds of anticipation still at play (both conscious and nonconscious) from those that are allegedly disrupted. A further account is then needed of why some kinds of anticipatory process contribute to the recognition of a thought as self-generated while others do not.</p>
			<p class="Tx">One could respond to this line of criticism by insisting that prediction failure is specific to very short-term anticipatory processes that accompany the generation of thoughts, something that is compatible with the retention of longer-term anticipatory processes. However, my emphasis in what follows is also on short-term anticipation, on how thought content is anticipated as it arises, with specific reference to VHs that are experienced as internal in origin and lacking in auditory qualities. Although references to anticipating and even having control over voices do not usually distinguish between external and internal VHs, it would be implausible to insist that only external VHs can involve anticipation. Internal, nonauditory VHs are at least sometimes anticipated as well. Indeed, it is more likely that reports of soliciting, dialoguing with, and arguing with one&#8217;s voices concern these internal, inner-speech-like voices. As one questionnaire respondent remarks, &#8220;My voices are thoughts, not auditory voices. &#8230; We talk. They respond&#8221; (12).</p>
			<p class="Tx">My proposal is that internal VHs are constituted by a distinctive <i>kind </i>of anticipatory structure. To develop this position, I will start by considering an account of VH/TI proposed by Gallagher (2005). This account is problematic, insofar it accepts the usual assumption that VHs can be accounted for by appealing to an absence of anticipation. Nevertheless, it remains informative for two main reasons. First of all, it not only places an emphasis on anxiety but also seeks to show exactly how anxiety induces VHs. Second, it recognizes how an emphasis on anxiety can account for the content-specificity of VHs, something that other kinds of prediction-failure account have failed to accommodate. Gallagher&#8217;s discussion encompasses both VH and TI. He does not say whether or how the two differ, but I want to show how a substantially modified version of his approach can be applied specifically to the kind of internal VH/TI experience described in chapter 3.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Gallagher maintains that acts of thinking ordinarily incorporate an experience of anticipation. It is not that you anticipate thinking something before you think it. That, he acknowledges, would fall foul of the infinite regress objection: anticipating the thought that <i>p</i> would involve a thought with the content &#8220;the thought that <i>p</i>,&#8221; which would itself be anticipated by a further thought, and so on. What is anticipated is less determinate in content. He offers the analogy of listening to a melody, where you might not anticipate hearing a specific note, but you do have at least some appreciation of what will come next, as illustrated by the surprise that is felt when a note is out of tune.<sup><span id="n4-8"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-8">8</a></span></sup> By analogy, you might anticipate the general theme of a thought, the full content of which is more specific (see also Hoffman 1986). Gallagher (2005, 190) suggests that the sense of having produced a thought depends on such &#8220;anticipatory&#8221; processes, rather than on &#8220;sensory feedback.&#8221; In this respect at least, his account remains consistent with Frith&#8217;s more recent view (Frith 2012). Gallagher&#8217;s idea is that, if a thought were not anticipated at all, it would arrive fully formed, rather than crystallizing out of something that is congruent with it but less determinate in content. This would amount to a sense of its emanating from elsewhere, like the unanticipated and fully formed communications we receive from other people. He further suggests that such experiences could be brought about by &#8220;unruly emotions such as anxiety.&#8221; In brief, anxiety disrupts anticipation and, were it to immediately precede a particular thought, that thought might &#8220;appear as if from nowhere&#8221;; it would be &#8220;sudden and unexpected&#8221; (2005, 194&#8211;200). This enables him to account for the content-specificity of VH/TI. Heightened anxiety is likely to be specific to certain perceived, remembered, and anticipated situations:</p>
			<p class="E">This may happen in the presence of certain individuals, or in a certain kind of situation, or confronted with a certain object, or in rehearsing certain thoughts. In those cases or similar circumstances, and in line with the episodic and selective nature of positive symptoms, a subject would then (but not always) experience thought insertion or similar loss in the sense of agency. (Gallagher 2005, 200)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Situations that elicit heightened anxiety will also be situations in which thoughts with certain contents are likely to arise. For instance, whenever one sees or remembers a particular person, one&#8217;s thoughts may gravitate around certain themes. If the perception or memory of that person elicits anxiety, the anticipation of those thoughts is likely to be disrupted, more so than thoughts in general.</p>
			<p class="Tx">There is something importantly right about this, but the emphasis on a lack of anticipation is mistaken. In fact, I suspect that having unanticipated thoughts is a fairly mundane experience, one that need not involve any sense of alienation. Instead, I propose that VHs arise when thought contents are themselves anticipated in a distinctive <i>way</i> as they take shape: one anxiously anticipates one&#8217;s own thought contents. All instances where one anticipates <i>p</i> can be qualified in terms of the following:</p>
			<p class="Lf">1.&#9;Determinacy of content: <i>p</i> can be more or less specific.</p>
			<p class="Lm">2.&#9;Mode of anticipation: <i>p</i> can be anticipated as certain, uncertain, probable, improbable, doubtful, and so forth.</p>
			<p class="Ll">3.&#9;Affective style of anticipation: anticipating <i>p</i> can involve a range of emotions, such as excitement, curiosity, hope, or fear.</p>
			<p class="TxNI">By appealing to a combination of (1) and (3), I will argue that VHs arise due to a distinctive affective style, that of anxiously anticipating an increasingly determinate thought content. I will assume that the mode of anticipation, (2), is usually that of certainty or high probability. The notion of a <i>style of anticipation</i> will be central to my discussion throughout the remainder of the book.</p>
			<div><a id="part3"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">4.3 </span>Alienated Content</p>
			<p class="TxNI">A first step in understanding how VH/TI can occur due to anxious anticipation is the appreciation that (a) certain types of affective anticipation are ordinarily associated with certain types of intentional state, and (b) affective anticipation contributes to the sense of being in one or another type of intentional state. The point can be illustrated with reference to emotional experiences more generally. I take it as uncontroversial that many emotions either are intentional states or at least incorporate intentional states: A is afraid of <i>p</i>; B feels guilty about <i>q</i>. This is not to imply that the intentionality of emotion is a matter of cognitive &#8220;judgment&#8221; or &#8220;appraisal&#8221; rather than &#8220;affect&#8221; or &#8220;feeling.&#8221; There are various ways of arguing that some or all emotional feelings are themselves intentional, and that their objects are not restricted to one&#8217;s own bodily states (see, e.g., Goldie 2000; Prinz 2004; Ratcliffe 2008). That is the position endorsed here, although I also allow that there is more to many emotional experiences than just feelings or combinations of feelings.</p>
			<p class="Tx">A given type of emotion, directed at a particular object, is compatible with certain other types of intentional state being contemporaneously directed at that same object, but not all types. For instance, feeling guilty about something is associated with remembering it but not with imagining it or anticipating its occurrence. And fearing something is associated with anticipating its occurrence but not with remembering that it has already occurred. Granted, there are apparent exceptions. For instance, one might quite rightly feel guilty about something that has not yet happened, in a situation where one has already set the wheels in motion such that it probably <i>will</i> happen. However, the guilt remains past-directed: one feels guilty about <i>p</i> in virtue of the fact that one remembers doing <i>q</i>, where <i>q</i> is likely to cause <i>p</i>.</p>
			<p class="Tx">We might say that certain emotions are <i>properly associated</i> only with certain other kinds of intentional state. This could be understood in various ways: an &#8220;improper&#8221; association might be regarded as epistemically or behaviorally misleading, irrational, biologically dysfunctional, socially inappropriate, or inappropriate in some other respect, and some of these criteria will most likely converge in any given case. My emphasis here is on the fact that it <i>makes sense</i> to feel guilty about something that one has done or at least something that has happened, but not about something that has not happened and may never happen. Similarly, it makes sense to fear the arrival of a potential threat, but not to fear the arrival of something that has already happened (where the object of fear is the past event, rather than its anticipated effects or the possibility of something like it happening again). The content of the relevant emotions can be expressed in terms of propositions such as &#8220;Something will or might happen that could harm me or someone I care about&#8221;; &#8220;I did something I should not have done&#8221;; and so forth. And they make sense when they are temporally consistent with their objects. We can also add spatial consistency as a requirement. For fear of <i>p</i> to make sense, the proximal and distal effects of <i>p</i> must be such as to potentially affect one, or something one cares about, in some way.</p>
			<p class="Tx">When remembering is associated with feeling guilty, it is debatable how the two relate. Perhaps there is a singular kind of intentional state, that of <i>guiltily remembering</i>. Alternatively, a distinction might be drawn between two intentional states with the same object. Or it could be that one first remembers something and then feels guilty about it; so guilt borrows its content from a preceding intentional state. However, even if the two experiences are&#8212;according to some criterion&#8212;distinct, it is plausible to suggest that they affect each other. It is not psychologically impossible to fear what has already happened or to feel guilty about a merely imagined state of affairs. Even so, the experience would be a strange one. In the case of guilt, one might then think &#8220;I am wrong to feel guilty about this&#8221; or, alternatively, &#8220;Perhaps I am not just imagining it; maybe I actually did it.&#8221; Indeed, were one to feel persistent, intense, recalcitrant guilt about something merely imagined, the sense of imagining having done it rather than remembering having done it might well become less secure; it would start to <i>feel</i> like something one had actually done. More generally, I propose the following: where an emotion or feeling <i>x</i> is properly associated with the content of intentional state <i>y</i> but not with the content of intentional state <i>z</i>, its association with <i>z</i> can result in <i>z</i>&#8217;s taking on some of the phenomenological characteristics of <i>y</i>. In extreme cases, the result is a novel kind of experience, one that is neither <i>y</i> nor <i>z</i>. It follows from this that the two are in fact inextricable, rather than being wholly separable experiences of a common object. To be more specific, a sense of one&#8217;s intentional state is partly constituted by certain feelings that share the same object. And, as argued in chapter 2, the sense of being in an intentional state cannot be cleanly separated from the wider experience that a state of that kind typically involves.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Where there is recalcitrant guilt over <i>p</i>, it contributes to the sense that <i>p</i> actually happened and that one was somehow implicated. This is not to suggest that feeling guilty is necessary for a sense of something as past. Rather, the claim is that, when one does feel guilt, it contributes to the sense of something as past rather than merely imagined. A similar point applies to fear: fear of something that is taken to be past could disrupt the sense of that event as firmly anchored in the past. I suggest that anxious anticipation induces VHs in the same way, by shaping the sense of which intentional state one is in. Anxious anticipation of <i>p</i> is not necessary for the sense of encountering <i>p</i> perceptually. However, when one does anxiously anticipate <i>p</i>, anxiety can contribute to the experience of relating to it in a perceptual or perception-like way. Anxiety is not ordinarily associated with our own thought contents and, when it is associated with them, they are experienced as the contents of a perception-like intentional state that also retains some of the features of thought.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This proposal requires further clarification. It is commonplace to think something and also feel anxious about it. So there is the objection that first-person thoughts clearly are proper objects of anxiety. However, what we are ordinarily anxious about is the state of affairs we are thinking about, not the having of a thought about that state of affairs. For example, where the thought content is &#8220;I might lose my job,&#8221; I am anxious about actually losing my job, not about having the thought that I might. Feeling anxious about &#8220;the thought that <i>p</i>&#8221; is a more unusual experience. How could this account for VHs, though? There is a sense in which anxiety is intrinsically alienating or externalizing. It presents its object&#8212;however determinate&#8212;as something unpleasant that one has to confront. The object of anxiety is something that threatens, something one feels helpless in the face of. So it is important to distinguish different experiences of &#8220;externality&#8221; here. To say that an object of anxiety is essentially external to oneself is not to insist that it be experienced as physically external to one&#8217;s bodily boundaries. Our own bodily experiences can also be objects of anxiety. A person who fears she has a serious medical condition may become increasingly anxious about certain persistent bodily sensations. And chronic illness can involve more widespread feelings of bodily alienation. The body is encountered in a way that is strange and previously unfamiliar, as an actual or potential impediment to one&#8217;s activities and an object of anxiety, rather than something in which one has implicit trust (van den Berg 1966; Carel 2013). Where an object of anxiety is physically external to oneself, one can feel alienated from it in a comparable way. Feeling comfortably immersed in the interpersonal world can be contrasted with feeling uncomfortably separate from it. When suffering from pronounced social anxiety, one does not simply feel physically separate from others. There is a different kind of separation; one is estranged from them, threatened by them, vulnerable and helpless before them.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In this respect, anxiety is comparable to at least some experiences of pain. Consider an intense, lingering pain in the hand that persists independently of any external stimulus. The pain is not experienced as external to the body but as located within one&#8217;s bodily boundaries, in the hand. All the same, there is a feeling of alienation from it, in the sense that one is faced with something unpleasant, something one seeks to avoid, to push away, but can do nothing about. The recognition of being inseparable from the pain and unable to detach oneself from it, the recognition that it is <i>not</i> physically external, exacerbates the kind of alienation I am interested in here. The pain is something that opposes one&#8217;s engagement with the world, something that one is forced to confront and cannot escape or deny. Hence something can be experienced as external and alien or, alternatively, as internal and alien. The sense of alienation that I am attributing to anxiety has nothing to do with perceived physical location.<sup><span id="n4-9"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-9">9</a></span></sup> And neither does that which many voice-hearers describe, since the voices are internally located and yet alien.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The view that internal VHs occur when thought contents become objects of anxiety is consistent with the observation that many voice-hearers dread their voices and, more specifically, what it is that the voices &#8220;say.&#8221; The distressing content is something the person is confronted with, something she might try unsuccessfully to resist or avoid. Of course, it could be that the person experiences <i>p</i> and is subsequently anxious about it because of its strangeness and unpleasantness. Although that is no doubt so, anxious anticipation also contributes to the relevant experience. To appreciate what internal VHs consist of and how they arise, we need a dynamic account of the relationship between anxiety and thought content. To illustrate what happens, consider more familiar experiences that involve an indeterminate, affectively charged thought content coalescing into something more determinate. Take the realization that you have left your bag on the train. As you walk out of the station, this might begin as a surge of anxiety, the content of which can be roughly characterized as &#8220;something is wrong&#8221;; &#8220;I&#8217;ve not done something,&#8221; or &#8220;something important is missing.&#8221; This becomes &#8220;I&#8217;ve left something on the train&#8221; and then &#8220;I&#8217;ve left my bag on the train,&#8221; after which the repercussions of what has happened start to sink in. Indeterminate content <i>p</i> arises, eliciting anxiety, and one anxiously anticipates the dawning of <i>q</i>, where <i>q</i> is a more determinate form of <i>p</i>. (The initial experience can also occur when nothing is wrong, in which case the content sometimes remains indeterminate, and the feeling fades upon recognition that all is well.)</p>
			<p class="Tx">The view that thought contents can increase in determinacy as they form is consistent with various proposed explanations of VHs. For instance, Fernyhough (2004) suggests that inner speech is more usually condensed and fragmented, and that an experience of alienation is attributable to its anomalous re-expansion. Gerrans (2014 198) distinguishes inner speech from thought, noting that inner speech can be construed as a linguistic &#8220;outcome&#8221; of thought processes that are not themselves inherently linguistic. And, according to the influential theory proposed by Hoffman (1986, 503), VHs are generated by disruption of a discourse planning process, which involves &#8220;abstract planning representations that are linked to goals and beliefs.&#8221; These provide a broad sense of what is coming next and precede more determinate contents. More generally, the received view is that VHs involve experiencing one&#8217;s own inner speech as non-self-produced, rather than one&#8217;s thoughts per se. And this emphasis on inner speech suggests a process via which thoughts are converted into inner speech (Stephens and Graham 2000, 81).<sup><span id="n4-10"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-10">10</a></span></sup> Hence it could be that a thought content of some other kind provokes anxiety, the object of which is the subsequent content of inner speech. For current purposes, I do not need to endorse a specific theory of what happens or how it happens. All I am committed to is the claim that thought content <i>p</i> precedes thought content <i>q</i>, where <i>q</i> is a more determinate form of <i>p</i>.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It might be objected that the content of the thought remains the same throughout this process&#8212;that it is simply translated into inner speech. However, whatever else the process might involve, it is plausible to insist on increasing degrees of content determinacy. This becomes more readily apparent when the predominantly emotional content of many VHs is emphasized. As already stated, I accept that many emotions are intentional states with contents that can be conveyed in linguistic form. However, even if one wishes to insist that they also include some kind of propositional content prior to their linguistic expression, this is not the same as their incorporating inner speech. It has been argued that spoken language serves not just to convey preformed emotional states but also to individuate or even partly constitute them, at least in some instances. Among other things, language can shape the content of an emotion (e.g., Campbell 1997; Colombetti 2009). Similar points are made by the phenomenologist Maurice Merleau-Ponty (1945/2012), for whom speech increases the determinacy of thought (and emotion): &#8220;the most familiar thing appears indeterminate as long as we have not remembered its name&#8221; (182); &#8220;the clarity of language is in fact established against an obscure background&#8221; (194). He refers specifically to emotional content and to how words can somehow &#8220;extract&#8221; from objects and &#8220;express&#8221; their &#8220;emotional essence&#8221; (193). Something like this can also be found in the writings of some psychotherapists. For example, Gendlin (1978/2003, 38) discusses the way in which we can have an inarticulate &#8220;felt sense&#8221; of a problem or situation. He remarks on the inchoate feeling that you have forgotten something or failed to do something and how, on some occasions, &#8220;suddenly, from this felt sense, it bursts to the surface.&#8221; Although he distinguishes the &#8220;felt sense&#8221; from emotions such as anxiety, his account is more generally consistent with the view that determinate linguistic contents can arise out of less determinate emotional contents that have an anticipatory structure.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Keeping in mind the view that spoken language can render the content of an emotional state more determinate, let us consider the emotional content of many VHs and its congruence with the wider emotional state or mood the person is in at the time. Take the following remarks:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;They constantly bombard me with thoughts of self-harm and suicide. &#8230; It&#8217;s like they want me to be dead. They want me to be a failure. They want me to cease to exist.&#8221; (6)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;It&#8217;s all my fears and hopes coming down, irrational and amplified.&#8221; (10)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Very mood congruent. When I am experiencing an extreme mood state the more I experience these things. When I am stable I almost never experience these things.&#8221; (20)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Associated moods here include &#8220;mania, severe depression, agitation, high anxiety&#8221; (20), and &#8220;sadness, despair, frustration, panic&#8221; (6). It is informative to revisit Hoffman (1986) in the light of such observations. His approach has a cognitive emphasis throughout. The abstract plans and goals that he claims enable discourse planning have, it seems, a propositional structure, although their content is less specific than that of inner speech. But consider an example Hoffman uses to illustrate his point. When asked to describe where she lives, a patient says the following:</p>
			<p class="E">Yes, I live in Connecticut. We live in a 50-year-old Tudor house. It&#8217;s a house that&#8217;s very much a home &#8230; ah &#8230; I live there with my husband and son. It&#8217;s a home where people are drawn to feel comfortable, walk in, let&#8217;s see &#8230; a home that is furnished comfortably&#8212;not expensive&#8212;a home that shows very much my personality. (Hoffman 1986, 506)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The overall theme that constitutes a sense of &#8220;where things are heading&#8221; is a consistently emotional one.<sup><span id="n4-11"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-11">11</a></span></sup> And utterances are not merely mood-congruent; what we have here is also the articulation or expression of an emotion or mood, something that renders its content increasingly specific. Now, let us assume that inner speech (and perhaps also the imagined speech of others) can play a similar role to spoken language. Thus, in the case of an abusive &#8220;voice,&#8221; there is an unpleasant emotional content <i>p</i>, which provokes anxious anticipation of a more determinate linguistic content <i>q</i>, one that is elicited by <i>p</i> and also consistent with <i>p</i>. Anxiety is intrinsically alienating and so its object, the thought that <i>q</i>, is experienced as alien, as something unpleasant that one faces and is unable to avoid. Whatever forms of anticipation our thinking more usually involves, anxious anticipation of thought content is not one of them. That style of anticipation is more typical of certain affectively charged perceptual experiences. So an unfamiliar, perception-like experience of thought content arises.<sup><span id="n4-12"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-12">12</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">It might be objected that the thought content &#8220;I&#8217;ve left my bag on the train&#8221; is not experienced as alien and that the process sketched here therefore fails to account for the &#8220;alien quality&#8221; of VHs. But there is a crucial difference between the two cases. In the train example, one is anxious about the <i>fact</i> that one has left one&#8217;s bag on the train, not about the <i>thought</i> content &#8220;I&#8217;ve left my bag on the train.&#8221; In the case of a VH with the content &#8220;You&#8217;re a worthless piece of filth,&#8221; the thought content is itself an object of anxiety. The way it is anticipated as it coalesces thus renders it alien, something unpleasant that one feels helpless in the face of.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Hence the more usual emphasis on a lack of anticipation is misleading.<sup><span id="n4-13"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-13">13</a></span></sup> To revisit the melody analogy, consider listening to a piece of music that involves a buildup of tension (an opera by Wagner, perhaps). We feel that something intrusive is about to blast in; it is on its way. And yet, when it arrives and conforms to the indeterminate expectation we had of it, it is still experienced as disruptive, as having arisen from elsewhere, as set apart from the music that preceded it. The same applies to moments of suspense in films. We might experience a growing tension, appreciate that something horrible is about to happen, and even have a fairly good idea of what actually will happen&#8212;perhaps somebody is about to be eaten by a shark. Even so, when it does happen, it is still shocking, still experienced as a disruption of what came before. To further analyze such experiences, a more refined account is needed of what exactly is anticipated, the extent to which it corresponds to what actually occurs, and the extent to which anticipated and actual times of occurrence match. It could be that the event is expected to occur within a given timeframe, but not at a particular moment. As it is not expected &#8220;right then,&#8221; it is still surprising. Nevertheless, I suggest that affective style of anticipation is more important. Whether and how something appears surprising or shocking is not just a matter of how likely its occurrence was taken to be and when exactly it was expected to occur. I do not expect to find a ten-cent coin on the floor as I walk out of my office. But, if I do, I will not feel especially surprised, and its being there will not be experienced as in any way incongruous with what came before. What matters is the kind of significance something has. Even if we know that something horrible is about to happen and even if we know roughly when it will happen, it is still experienced as interrupting what came before. Similarly, the kind of &#8220;surprise&#8221; associated with VHs can be thought of principally in terms of the disturbance of something, rather than in terms of the arrival of something that was largely unanticipated. Experiencing something as incongruous in one or another way involves a distinctive kind of anticipation, rather than a lack.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What I have proposed is consistent with empirical findings concerning (a) the thematic content of many VHs, (b) the prevalence of anxiety, and (c) the occurrence of similar kinds of VH experience in several psychiatric conditions and in at least some of those nonclinical subjects who report &#8220;hearing voices.&#8221; Importantly, it is also consistent with first-person accounts and can aid us in interpreting them. Hayward, Berry, and Ashton (2011, 1313) observe that &#8220;the relationships that hearers develop with their hallucinations share many properties with interpersonal relationships within the social world.&#8221; Both tend to be characterized by a sense of isolation, vulnerability, and powerlessness in the face of something menacing (Birchwood et al. 2000).<sup><span id="n4-14"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-14">14</a></span></sup> In fact, VH contents are sometimes explicitly described as linguistic manifestations of negative, self-directed emotional appraisals, which reflect troubling interpersonal relationships and are themselves a source of distress. For example:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I heard the voices of demons screaming at me, telling that I was damned, that God hated me, and that I was going to hell. &#8230; It&#8217;s hard to describe how I could &#8216;hear&#8217; a voice that wasn&#8217;t auditory; but the words used and the emotions they contained (hatred and disgust) were completely clear, distinct and unmistakable, maybe even more so that if I had heard them aurally. &#8230; The voices I heard reflected all the judgmental attitudes I had heard from my family and church.&#8221; (9)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Like the judgments of other people, the judgments that form the content of the VHs are themselves feared; they are associated with &#8220;anxiety/panic and incapacitating depression&#8221; (9).</p>
			<p class="Tx">It is also interesting to note how such experiences are sometimes described not only as <i>unlike</i> hearing something but also as somehow <i>clearer</i> than hearing, or as involving a sense of reality that is, in some way, more pronounced than that of an ordinary perception. As Karlsson (2008, 365) observes, voices can seem &#8220;more real than reality,&#8221; in a way that is &#8220;overwhelming,&#8221; even when they are experienced as emanating from within. We can make sense of this by returning to a point made in chapter 2: different factors contribute to a sense of presence or reality, factors that can conflict with each other and sometimes override one another. While some factors may become more pronounced, others may be diminished. In fact, the experience of a voice as <i>more real</i> than an object of auditory perception is partly attributable to its <i>not</i> coming from outside. Given this, its content is importantly unlike that of an auditory experience. When you hear a self-directed utterance, there is the possibility of error: perhaps it wasn&#8217;t directed at me after all; perhaps I misheard what was said; perhaps it was not intended in the way I initially thought. Even where there is no doubt concerning the content and intended recipient of a communication, the possibility remains of challenging or rejecting what has been said. However, when faced with a linguistic manifestation of one&#8217;s own self-directed emotional appraisal, these possibilities do not apply. Its content cannot be reinterpreted or rejected, at least not in the same way. What we have here is a peculiar kind of intentionality. In one sense, the voice is experienced as less real, given that it is removed from the public world. Yet it is also more real, as one cannot distance oneself from it in order to reinterpret or repudiate its pronouncements. This is consistent with the observation that voices are generally &#8220;perceived as being extraordinarily powerful&#8221; (Chadwick and Birchwood 1994, 191). The <i>judgment</i> of the voice comes with a heightened sense of authority; it knows you to an extent and in a way that makes its content irresistible:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;It&#8217;s not just like hearing a person&#8217;s voice who is in the room with you&#8212;in a way it is much more intimate, but can also be much more remote.&#8221; (7)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I did not hear the voices aurally. They were much more intimate than that, and inescapable.&#8221; (9)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;It&#8217;s more ghostly [than a real person&#8217;s voice], it knows everything about you because it&#8217;s a part of you.&#8221; (10)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;They know me more intimately than others usually do.&#8221; (36)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">But why should this <i>intimacy</i> override the recognition that the voice does not originate in a public world, in a realm that is physically external to oneself and accessible to others? As will become clearer in chapters 5 and 6, the answer is that the sense of being immersed in a shared world is already altered and diminished. None of the person&#8217;s perceptions and thoughts are embedded in a public world in the way they once were, and so the ordinarily taken-for-granted distinction between a consensus reality and his own experience of it is eroded. VH contents are consistent with a wider sense of alienation, passivity, helplessness, and interpersonal threat. To be more specific, they are crystallizations of negative, self-directed emotions that reflect his estrangement from the social world. Consider the following: &#8220;I hate everything about myself. &#8230; I hear a voice that confirms everything I think about myself and sometimes it feels as if it is the only one that will tell me the real truth about myself. &#8230; I can never concentrate on anything but how I am feeling and the voice I hear.&#8221; Here, there is a combination of distressing, self-directed emotions and heightened attentiveness toward them.<sup><span id="n4-15"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-15">15</a></span></sup> The content of the voice is intimately associated with the content of these emotions: &#8220;I took an anti-psychotic to stop the voice and it helped a bit as I don&#8217;t have something that seems so real confirming my feelings so outrightly.&#8221;<sup><span id="n4-16"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-16">16</a></span></sup> Reference to a voice &#8220;confirming&#8221; feelings indicates that it not only expresses preformed feelings but also adds to them in some way. This, I suggest, is to be understood in terms of its giving them a more determinate content, one that is an object of anxious anticipation. Feelings of inadequacy and the like are initially indeterminate, but can take on a more determinate linguistic guise that <i>confirms </i>the emotional appraisal it is congruent with and out of which it arises.</p>
			<p class="Tx">My position is consistent to some extent with endorsement accounts of VH/TI, according to which a thought is experienced as alien because its content is in tension with other aspects of the person&#8217;s self-conception and is therefore not endorsed by her:</p>
			<p class="E">A person denies that she is the agent of a given thought because she finds that she cannot explain its occurrence in terms of her theory or conception of her intentional psychology. &#8230; Whether a person regards a thought (subjectively) in him as something that he <i>thinks</i>, rather than as a mere episode in his psychological history, depends upon whether he finds it explicable in terms of his conception of what he believes and desires. (Stephens and Graham 2000, 162, 165)<sup><span id="n4-17"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-17">17</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="TxNI">However, lack of endorsement does not <i>follow</i> formation of thought content. Instead, the person dreads the content <i>as it arises</i>, feels helpless before it, and is unable to repudiate it when it comes to fruition. The experience is one of ineffectively resisting the arrival of a negative emotional judgment regarding oneself:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;It&#8217;s mocking me, I hate that one. &#8230; I am left in a state of fear. &#8230; They don&#8217;t sound like me. They are angry most of the time. I don&#8217;t like to think of mean things, I try hard not to, but the more I try not to think the more the voices get nasty.&#8221; (22)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Some first-person accounts further indicate a process of exactly the kind I have described, where an experience induces anxious anticipation, which itself proceeds to shape the experience in question:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;It&#8217;s very difficult to describe the experience. Words seem to come into my mind from another source than through my own conscious effort. I find myself straining sometimes to make out the word or words, and my own anxiety about what I hear or may have heard makes it a fearful experience. I seem pulled into the experience and fear itself may shape some of the words I hear.&#8221; (32)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I have come to recognise the voices as expressions of anxiety, perhaps even a recognition of a fear I have about myself that I am not prepared to entertain as being part of my personality.&#8221; (34)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In the case of (32), there is anxious anticipation of what is coming next, rather than lack of conscious anticipation, and this influences what is subsequently experienced. And, as further indicated by (34), anxiety about one&#8217;s own thought contents is inextricable from a sense of their being alien; the anxiety is constitutive of <i>disowning</i> something distressing. Consider also the following:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;There is a certain temporal weirdness to my voices often, which sort of alerts me to the fact that they aren&#8217;t just someone else in the room. It&#8217;s hard to describe, but in a certain way it feels as if they are &#8216;echoey,&#8217; not in the normal auditory sense of echoey, but in the temporal sense&#8212;that they were somehow heard before they were said, or maybe understood or &#8216;felt&#8217; before they were heard. The discrepancy is tiny, but it is noticeable and I have learned to notice that.&#8221; (7)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Again, the view that VHs involve linguistic crystallizations of more diffuse emotional experiences serves to illuminate. Here, the VH experience is preceded by an emotional experience with a consistent, albeit less determinate, content. The person therefore senses its coming, and does so on the basis of something that has already happened. The VH is the <i>echo</i> of the emotion out of which it coagulates, something that was <i>felt</i> before it took on a more specific linguistic form.<sup><span id="n4-18"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-18">18</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">We can also understand the experience of &#8220;command hallucinations&#8221; in these terms. McCarthy-Jones et al. (2014) report that 67 percent of their subjects experienced commands, while 80 percent experienced voices addressing them in the second person. It is commonplace for people to voice their emotional self-evaluations in the second person, an observation that plausibly applies to inner dialogue as well: &#8220;Why on earth did you do that?&#8221;; &#8220;You just made a fool of yourself&#8221;; &#8220;Come on, you can do it!&#8221; So it is to be expected that VHs, if they are linguistic manifestations of negative, self-directed emotional states, will often take a second-person form. As for commands, many emotions are motivational and either incorporate or are at least very closely associated with action tendencies. An emotion can thus involve a disposition, or even an urge, to do something. So it is natural to suppose that some disturbing emotions will manifest themselves in the form of instructions or commands. As for &#8220;voices&#8221; that mention the subject in the third person, some or all of these may be better accounted for in terms of external VHs of a kind addressed in the next section, where there is a more audition-like experience of &#8220;them talking about me.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">So far, I have construed VHs in terms of thought contents of whatever sophistication and duration. However, as noted in chapter 3, these can also be personified to varying degrees:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The voice I hear in my head sounds different from my own inner voice, speaks differently and it is a person with a completely different personality that I have no control over.&#8221; (1)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;The voices inside my head definitely have their own personalities, their own belief systems, their own values and morals.&#8221; (2)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Personification can be partly accounted for in terms of thematic consistency. Insofar as VH contents are consistent, one might come to think of them as emanating from a singular personal source, while different thematic clusters might be attributed to different sources. Imaginative elaboration also has a role to play, and an increasingly detailed picture of the personality in question could feed into the anticipatory process, shaping VH experiences as they occur. Furthermore, general disturbances in the modal structure of intentionality would increase the likelihood of confusion between imagining and perceiving (as also mentioned in chapter 3). So the voice-hearer might anxiously anticipate imaginative episodes where someone gives linguistic form to an emotional judgment, thus alienating her not only from the voice but from its owner as well. The process could also involve memories of a particular individual, which might themselves be imaginatively embellished. We would therefore expect to see cycles of increasing personification, rather than the sudden arrival of a personality behind a voice. Along with this, the content of communications might become more specific and elaborate, as the contents of self-directed emotions are imaginatively enriched. Further thematic complexity could be added through the construction of an accompanying, contextualizing narrative, involving the activities of however many agents, which itself takes on some of the &#8220;qualities&#8221; of reality, something of the <i>sense of believing</i>. All of this is consistent with the observation that VHs often become more elaborate over time:</p>
			<p class="E">Those with longer histories described more hallucinated words and tended to produce more instances of hallucinated utterances. Furthermore, the non-recent group described a greater number of voices and a greater range of emotional expression and grammatical style of address including commenting on thoughts. A delusional construction of the significance of the voices (e.g. CIA plot) was more likely to be found in the chronic group. (Nayani and David 1996, 184)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">I do not wish to imply that exactly the same process is at work in all cases. For instance, elaboration of the core experience may involve a distinctive type of change in the modal structure of intentionality, one that encompasses certain kinds of imagining as well as inner speech, while other VHs may involve a more specific disturbance of the boundary between perception and inner speech. And it could be that degree of personification depends on whether and to what extent the relevant emotions originate in distressing events involving particular individuals. The account offered here is thus intended to accommodate a range of more specific phenomena.</p>
			<div><a id="part4"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">4.4 </span>Hypervigilance</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Up to now, my discussion has been limited to internal VH experiences, which I have distinguished from external, audition-like VHs. However, in emphasizing the contrast between these two broad categories, there is a risk of oversimplification. It is now time to acknowledge some of the messiness and diversity. First of all, it should be noted that the category &#8220;internal VH&#8221; accommodates different kinds of experience. It would be wrong to place all the emphasis on perception-like experiences of inner speech. The alienating role of anxiety could apply equally to distressing contents of memory and imagination. Some of these may have more pronounced auditory qualities, thus accounting for VHs that are experienced as both internal and audition-like. Michie et al. (2005) suggest that VHs consist of memory intrusions, rather than misplaced inner speech, although McCarthy-Jones et al. (2014) report that only 39 percent of their subjects acknowledged VH contents resembling memories and even fewer said that their VH contents were memories. So it could well be that the category &#8220;internal VH&#8221; is heterogeneous, encompassing inner speech, memories, and imaginings, as well as experiences that involve some combination of the three. The prevalence of one or another subtype may reflect individual differences, different life histories, and/or different psychiatric diagnoses. If, as seems plausible, a TI description of experience generally corresponds to &#8220;an internal VH involving a perception-like experience of inner speech&#8221; rather than &#8220;an internal VH of whatever kind,&#8221; we would expect reports of internal VHs to be more widespread than reports of TI.</p>
			<p class="Tx">We should also keep in mind that social anxiety is not a singular phenomenon but something that would benefit from further analysis. Some first-person accounts emphasize shame and humiliation, others interpersonal threat and helplessness, and others guilt and self-hate. Different variants of social anxiety are likely to be associated with different thematic contents, given that VHs tend to be mood congruent. Again, some of these differences might correspond, at least to some degree, to different psychiatric diagnoses. For example, a person with a diagnosis of psychotic depression may hear voices that mock her and criticize her for her failures (Lar&#248;i 2006). Hence my account is able to handle considerable phenomenological diversity, and to distinguish VH characteristics that may be more typical of one or another diagnosis. It is not intended exclusively as an analysis of &#8220;inner speech hallucinations&#8221;; I am making a more generally applicable point about the modal structure of intentionality and the role played by affective, anticipatory processes.</p>
			<p class="Tx">But what about external VHs? If first-person accounts are to be taken at face value, these are often much more like veridical auditory perceptions. However, social anxiety is plausibly implicated here too, in some cases at least. In addition to inducing internal VHs, pervasive social anxiety could dispose a person to misperceive auditory stimuli, especially in complex, unpredictable social environments where there are plenty of ambiguous utterances and other noises. For example:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I was at an airport once and pretending not to listen to a very animate conversation&#8212;I was in the midst of a significant period of distress that resulted in psychiatric intervention for psychosis&#8212;I was looking down at the floor as I pretended not to listen. The content of the conversation was disturbing and I believed at the time it was directed at me. When I looked up the individuals in question were not speaking, and seemed to be positioned such that they could not have been engaged in such a lively conversation. This type of occurrence is quite common for me in periods of distress. Other times, I have had it confirmed that I really was &#8216;overhearing&#8217; real comments and interpreting them in &#8216;paranoid&#8217; ways&#8212;by sympathetic friends who I asked to listen along with.&#8221; (25)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">As with internal VHs, this could involve cycles of affective anticipation, as opposed to a lack of anticipation. Consider the following account, which concerns voices that appear to originate in the external environment:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Due to the murmuring voice experiences being so distressing with each successive occurrence however, I grew to dread ever more either whenever another experience would appear to possibly be forthcoming or, once in the midst of an actual ongoing experience, what would come next; waiting for the next shoe to drop.&#8221; (31)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Consistent with reports such as these, Dodgson and Gordon (2009) suggest that some VHs, specifically those that seem to emanate from a determinate location in the external environment, are attributable to &#8220;hypervigilance.&#8221; These experiences depend, to some extent at least, on sensory stimulation. However, because the person feels under threat, there is a heightened disposition toward false positives, toward the misinterpretation of environmental stimuli in terms of certain thematic contents. Negative emotions such as shame might then dissuade the voice-hearer from using other people for &#8220;reality testing.&#8221; Vicious cycles can thus develop, involving anxiety, isolation, and an increasing tendency to misinterpret external stimuli in consistent ways. Dodgson and Gordon (2009, 332) therefore distinguish VHs that involve the misperception of inner speech from those attributable to the effects of anxious hypervigilance on auditory perception. It has been noted that VHs occur most often either in noisy social environments or when a person is on her own (e.g., Delespaul, deVries, and Van Os 2002). As Dodgson and Gordon observe, this further supports a distinction between two types of VH that are generated via two different mechanisms. When the person is alone with his thoughts, rather than distracted by the surrounding environment and by tasks he is engaged in, we would expect inner speech VHs to be most frequent. However, in noisy social environments, audition-like VHs would more likely predominate. All of this is consistent with my account of internal VHs. Furthermore, as anxiety is implicated in both cases, it is clear why many people &#8220;hear&#8221; both internal and external VHs. Incidentally, both types of VH could be said to involve failures of &#8220;source monitoring.&#8221; And, insofar as a source-monitoring approach accommodates but fails to distinguish these importantly different kinds of experience (which also come about in quite different ways), it is insufficiently specific and lacks explanatory power. However, this is not to imply that a consideration of the modal structure of intentionality is irrelevant to an understanding of external VHs. As chapters 5 and 6 will further emphasize, VHs generally occur in the context of a shift in how the person relates to the social world as a whole, something that involves an all-enveloping change in the structure of intentionality. As well as rendering her vulnerable to internal VHs, this can also dispose her to misperceive or misinterpret certain environmental stimuli.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In conjunction with anxious hypervigilance, there is a role for what Hoffman (2007) calls &#8220;social deafferentation.&#8221; In brief, the idea is that voice-hearers are often estranged from others in general and that, when socially isolated to such an extent, one can miss sensory input from others in much the same way that the nervous system comes to &#8220;miss&#8221; an amputated limb. In a manner that is analogous to the generation of a phantom limb, social isolation leads to the production of &#8220;spurious social meaning&#8221; in vulnerable individuals, involving &#8220;emotionally compelling hallucinations and delusions representing other persons or agents.&#8221; Noting the association between schizophrenia and social isolation, as well as the correlation between reduced social interaction and the onset of VHs, Hoffman thus appeals to the &#8220;repopulating&#8221; of a &#8220;barren interpersonal world&#8221; (2007, 1066&#8211;1067). Given the distinction between internal and external VHs, this view requires further refinement. It is applicable to both types, but in different ways. In the case of external VHs, it can be combined with an emphasis on anxiety and hypervigilance. Even in the presence of others, the voice-hearer feels isolated; she needs interpersonal communication and is primed for it. At the same time, she dreads what she will find and is therefore disposed to experience environmental stimuli&#8212;especially spoken language&#8212;in terms of unpleasant, self-directed utterances. She cannot help seeking something but, in so doing, she ends up finding only the variant of it that she has been trying to avoid. In the case of internal VHs, it could be that, in addition to dreading the linguistic manifestations of self-directed emotions, she feels isolated from other people and thus especially prone to imagining interactions with them. But, as these interactions are shaped by negative, self-directed emotions, she is caught in the conflictual situation of seeking and resisting something at the same time. So we can see why one might have an ambivalent relationship with a &#8220;voice.&#8221; For some, it is comparable to being stuck with a horrible &#8220;friend,&#8221; owing to an absence of alternative company.</p>
			<p class="Tx">To summarize, internal VHs are heterogeneous, and all such experiences are to be distinguished from external VHs. Nevertheless, some external VHs are equally attributable to anxiety. It is thus fruitful to interpret VHs in terms of an overarching internal&#8211;external distinction, a distinction that is phenomenologically revealing and also points to different mechanisms. Consequently, it turns out that there is at least something to be said for how Jaspers (1963) distinguishes between hallucinations and pseudo-hallucinations. Granted, the term &#8220;pseudo-hallucination&#8221; has been and continues to be used in a number of different ways, does not have a clear referent, and is often unhelpful (Berrios and Dening 1996). But here, I am concerned more specifically with Jaspers&#8217; formulation of it. According to Jaspers, there are two main differences between hallucinations and pseudo-hallucinations: pseudo-hallucinations are experienced in &#8220;subjective space&#8221; and also lack the character of &#8220;objectivity&#8221; or &#8220;concrete reality&#8221; (1963, 69). This distinction is consistent with that between internal and external VHs. To quote Jaspers (1963, 74), &#8220;we have to differentiate &#8216;inner voices&#8217; (&#8216;voices of the mind&#8217;) that is &#8216;pseudo-hallucinations&#8217; from &#8216;voices proper.&#8217;&#8221; Internal VHs are not experienced as externally located phenomena but arise <i>in the head</i> or, if you like, in one&#8217;s own subjective <i>space</i>. Furthermore, the sense of presence or reality that they involve is not to be identified with that of <i>concrete reality</i>. The voice is taken to be real in a qualitatively different way from that in which a veridical utterance by another person is taken to be real. Nevertheless, I have argued that this does not imply taking it to be <i>less real</i>. Different factors contribute to a sense of its presence, and VH content is not present in quite the same <i>way</i> as an object of auditory perception. It is not the case that all hallucinatory experiences approximate, to varying degrees, a singular experience of presence or reality. That sense is multifaceted, and sometimes conflicted.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Jaspers (1963, 68) further states that pseudo-hallucinations are not really &#8220;perceptions&#8221; but, rather, a &#8220;special kind of imagery.&#8221; He construes this in terms of a spectrum of sensory detail, spanning from less developed experiences to others that are comparable, in their content, to a veridical perceptual experience. What these &#8220;pseudo-hallucinatory&#8221; experiences lack corresponds to what I have called the <i>sense</i> of perceiving. However, I have argued that this does not apply to internal VHs. We need to distinguish the sense of having a perceptual experience from the characteristic content of such an experience. Internal VHs involve a perception-like experience of a more usually nonperceptual content, rather than a non-perception-like experience of something that continues to resemble perceptual content. So Jaspers is right to emphasize the distinction between internal and external VHs, as well as how their contents differ. But he is wrong to construe the contents of internal VHs as akin to those of external VHs, and he also fails to acknowledge how internal VHs can have a sense of reality that is, in some respects, <i>more</i> pronounced than that of external VHs. Therefore, the term &#8220;pseudo-hallucination&#8221; is after all a misleading one in this context, as it wrongly suggests that one kind of experience is somehow a poor approximation of another. However, there is another, more accurate way of thinking about pseudo-hallucination. This involves turning our attention away from first-person experience and toward the perspective of the interpreter. Internal VHs are not hallucinations, in the orthodox sense of an experience that resembles, to varying degrees, a veridical perception. Nevertheless, there is a pervasive tendency to misinterpret them as such. So they are pseudo-hallucinations, in the sense that they look like hallucinations of the orthodox variety to an insufficiently attentive interpreter, when they are not like that at all.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Can all VHs be unambiguously assigned either to the &#8220;internal&#8221; or to the &#8220;external&#8221; category? Jaspers seems to think so. He describes the difference between inner and outer or subjective and objective as a &#8220;gulf,&#8221; and insists that &#8220;there are no transitions&#8221; (1963, 70). He does allow that an internal VH can change into an external VH. So, in ruling out transitional phenomena, I take him to be claiming that, although an internal VH might become an external VH, there are no enduring experiences that fall between the two. I doubt that this is the case, though, and my own account does allow for in-between cases. A perceptual stimulus could trigger an imagining, which is experienced as an object of pronounced anxiety, and consequently as alien and perception-like. The same applies to inner speech: an external stimulus with auditory qualities could trigger an increasingly determinate linguistic content that is then experienced as alien. Unlike an internal VH, this would seem to originate in the external environment, given its association with a perceived environmental cause. Auditory properties might also be interpreted so as to cohere with the content of the communication. This is consistent with descriptions of voices as &#8220;inside the head&#8221; and at the same time elicited by auditory stimuli:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;They are often triggered by (real) sounds, and they have no meaning. For example, if I hear the words &#8216;do it,&#8217; it won&#8217;t be as if I am thinking of doing something, or feel like I&#8217;m being compelled to do something. The voice is also not my voice. And it is more audible than my thoughts, it jumps out over them.&#8221; (18)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">It could well be that many VH experiences straddle the internal&#8211;external distinction. Consider the following: &#8220;I can interpret an innocent conversation that people are having in my vicinity as a derisory discussion about me, which stops when I challenge it by listening more closely&#8221; (34). We might interpret this as a simple hypervigilance hallucination. On the other hand, it could involve something more complicated, such as hearing a conversation, getting a vague sense that it is about oneself, and then imagining things that might be said about oneself, which are themselves the manifestations of negative, self-directed emotions, and elicit anxiety as they crystallize. Thus, while the external&#8211;internal distinction serves to distinguish two importantly different phenomena, it is also compatible with there being a range of experiences between the two poles.<sup><span id="n4-19"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-19">19</a></span></sup></p>
			<div><a id="part5"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">4.5 </span>Voices in Context</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Although anxiety about one&#8217;s own thought contents is unusual, it is perhaps more widespread than internal VHs. It could be that many people have disruptive, intrusive, and self-directed thoughts that provoke anxiety but are not experienced as VHs. I do not want to rule out the possibility that internal VHs, of the kind described here and in chapter 3, can occur against the backdrop of a more generally undisturbed modal structure. According to what I have said, an exceptionally pronounced feeling of anxiety with respect to a particular thought content could, in principle, induce such an experience. However, I am concerned with what is generally the case, rather than with what is conceivably the case on rare occasions. And VHs are more usually symptomatic of wide-ranging changes in the structure of experience, which render a person vulnerable to more pronounced, localized disruptions of the kinds so far described.</p>
			<p class="Tx">As discussed in chapter 2, the role of alterations in the overall structure or form of experience is a consistent theme in phenomenological psychopathology. For instance, van den Berg (1982, 103) states that &#8220;&#8216;a&#8217; hallucination, like any other artificially isolated phenomenon, can only be rightly observed in a study of psychical totality, which is disturbed in some way.&#8221; Others have claimed, more specifically, that the early or prodromal stages of schizophrenia involve phenomenological changes that render a person&#8217;s thoughts strangely and increasingly perception-like. There are reports of inner dialogue becoming &#8220;more pronounced&#8221; before the onset of voices, with &#8220;subtle pre-psychotic distortions of the stream of consciousness&#8212;such as abnormal sonorization of inner dialogue and/or perceptualization of thought&#8221; (Raballo and Lar&#248;i 2011, 163). A &#8220;morbid objectification of inner speech&#8221; is thus said to be &#8220;essential to the formation&#8221; of VHs (Henriksen, Raballo, and Parnas 2015, 172). This is consistent with a gradual, progressive process, one that can culminate in experiences where voices are &#8220;almost personified&#8221; (Raballo and Lar&#248;i 2011, 165). </p>
			<p class="Tx">Such approaches have not sought to account for the primary experience of alienation in terms of social anxiety and social estrangement. Both are regarded as secondary to a more fundamental, schizophrenia-specific disturbance of self-awareness. Of particular interest, though, is what Louis Sass calls &#8220;hyperreflexivity&#8221;: a heightened attentiveness to more usually unreflective aspects of experience, which is most fundamentally involuntary but can include forms of voluntary attention as well. This, Sass maintains, is largely responsible for a wide-ranging experience of alienation from psychological and bodily processes, in the context of which more localized anomalous experiences occur. Anxious anticipation of thought content, as described earlier, can be construed as a form of hyperreflexivity. It involves a heightened, largely involuntary attentiveness toward something, which at the same time constitutes a sense of alienation from its object. According to Sass, hyperreflexivity is bound up with &#8220;diminished self-affection,&#8221; a global diminution of normal emotional feeling that can occur in conjunction with more localized affective responses that are unusually heightened and/or otherwise anomalous (e.g., Sass 2003, 2007, 2014a).<sup><span id="n4-20"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f4-20">20</a></span></sup> Again, this is consistent with the suggestion that unusual forms of affective anticipation can disrupt the sense of which intentional state one is in. That said, I do not wish to suggest that hyperreflexive alienation in psychiatric illness invariably takes this form. There may well be cases where alienation from experiences and thoughts is brought about in some other way and <i>makes</i> the person anxious. The anxiety would then feed into and exacerbate the original experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Sass maintains that, although the most disruptive forms of hyperreflexivity occur in schizophrenia, its presence is also consistent with other psychiatric diagnoses, including depersonalization disorder and some dissociative conditions (Sass 1992, 1994, 2014a). As we saw in chapter 2, others make the stronger claim that VH/TI originates in a distinctive form of self-disorder that is specific to schizophrenia, and that other types of VH experience are quite different (e.g., Henriksen, Raballo, and Parnas 2015). However, anxious alienation of thought content is diagnostically nonspecific, and the more enveloping phenomenological changes that I go on to describe in chapters 5 and 6 are also common to a range of psychiatric diagnoses. The implications of this for the diagnostic category &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; will be considered in chapter 6. So far, I have focused on one of two roles played by social anxiety, that of acting as an immediate trigger for VHs. However, as mentioned in section 4.1, generalized anxiety and social isolation are also disposing factors (which is not to rule out others). People with various different psychiatric diagnoses report all-enveloping feelings of anxiety and estrangement. These, I will suggest, amount to wider-ranging disturbances in the structure of intentionality. In addressing such experiences, it is worth reminding ourselves of a central claim made by the Hearing Voices Movement: VHs originate in traumatic or otherwise unpleasant interpersonal events (e.g., Romme et al. 2009). Anxiety, stress, social estrangement, experiences of abuse, and fear of others are prominent themes in the accounts of many people who experience VHs. For example:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I was only 9 when I started hearing voices so I don&#8217;t remember so much. I had a lot of anxiety, OCD, was bullied and had no friends. I was constantly feeling stressed and out of place, kept everyone at a distance.&#8221; (1)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Life was very stressful. I was quite often in crisis mode. Lots of agitation present.&#8221; (20)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I was lonely and often scared, worried about what I&#8217;d done wrong and why I was being treated the way I was.&#8221; (21)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I was living in terror the first time it happened. I had been living in terror for a few years. It was a very dark time. I didn&#8217;t open my blinds for fear of attack for two years. When I heard it first I actually thought it was my children screaming. I was so scared, it took me four years to tell my psych. I was hearing things. I was scared I would lose my children.&#8221; (22)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;Before I started hearing voices, I was in an abusive relationship for five and a half years. He was mentally abusive, took control of me and banned me from seeing my friends and family. &#8230; I ended up remembering that my ex had raped me and I started hearing voices not long after that.&#8221; (23)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I was fourteen years old and was in a period of intense distress: not sleeping, fearful that everyone hated me, that some people were trying to hurt me in some way I didn&#8217;t understand but needed to figure out.&#8221; (25)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;First began experiencing voices &#8230; in an abusive church/home situation as a small child. Depression, anxiety, bullying.&#8221; (38)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I first began to hear voices during the darkest and loneliest time of my life.&#8221; (35)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">What is often described is a sequence of unpleasant situations and events, such as suffering childhood sexual abuse, followed by abusive relationships and marriage breakdowns in adulthood. In other cases, however, matters are not so clear. Some say that they have always heard voices or that they cannot remember when their voices started:</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I can&#8217;t remember when it started, I can&#8217;t remember it not happening.&#8221; (3)</p>
			<p class="E">&#8220;I can&#8217;t remember. I&#8217;ve been experiencing this since childhood.&#8221; (18)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">It should certainly not be assumed that VH/TI is invariably associated with a history of trauma or, at least, unpleasant interpersonal experiences. In an alternative scenario, anomalous experiences, including VH/TI, cause social isolation and disrupt social relationships. Nevertheless, it is plausible to maintain that traumatic events involving other people can and often do bring about changes in the structure of intentionality. Chapters 5 and 6 will address what these changes consist of and how they come about. I will show how traumatic experience can involve loss of a pervasive form of <i>trust</i>, <i>confidence</i>, or <i>certainty</i>, something that is inseparable from one&#8217;s relationship with the social world and equally inseparable from the modal structure of intentionality. The account I will develop is consistent with work in phenomenological psychopathology, insofar as it emphasizes alterations in the overall structure of experience that envelop even the most basic or &#8220;minimal&#8221; sense of self. However, it further maintains that the integrity of this structure is dependent on interpersonal relations. In this respect at least, it is consistent with the stance of the Hearing Voices Movement.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
