<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_001" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="intro"/></div>
			<p class="CT">1 Introduction</p>
			<p class="TxNI">This book is about the structure of human experience, its fragility, and how it is shaped by relations with other people. It focuses specifically on the nature of auditory verbal hallucinations and thought insertion in psychiatric illness. Thought insertion involves somehow experiencing one&#8217;s own thoughts as someone else&#8217;s, while auditory verbal hallucinations are generally taken to consist of hearing a voice or having an experience much like that of hearing a voice, but in the absence of a speaker. In addressing these phenomena, my aims are principally philosophical and also encompass a far wider subject matter. I seek to make explicit something that is essential to all human experience but seldom remarked on, and to offer a detailed account of what it consists of. When we have an experience <i>of</i> something, we ordinarily recognize that we are in one or another kind of intentional state, such as remembering, imagining, or perceiving. For instance, if I look at something and have a visual experience of it, I appreciate that I am perceiving it (and, more specifically, perceiving it visually), rather than imagining or remembering it. The same goes for other kinds of intentionality. Put crudely, it is <i>like something</i> to remember, which differs from what it is like to perceive. Usually, we do not need to explicitly infer or somehow figure out which intentional state we are in; it is phenomenologically unambiguous and taken for granted. So an experience with intentional content is either intimately associated with a prereflective, unthinking <i>sense</i> of the kind of experience one is having or, as I will argue, it incorporates that sense.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In contrast to mundane, unproblematic cases, I will show how thought insertion, and also a substantial proportion of auditory verbal hallucinations, consist of disturbances in the sense of being in one or another kind of intentional state, in what I call the <i>modal structure of intentionality</i> (meaning our grasp of the various modalities of intentionality, such as believing, perceiving, remembering, and imagining, as distinct from one another). So, by studying them, we can draw attention to the relevant aspect of experience and come to better understand its nature. I will also make clear how episodic and seemingly localized disturbances such as these arise within the context of less pronounced but wider-ranging alterations in the structure of intentionality. In the process, I will develop an account of how the integrity of human experience, including what we might term the most basic experience of <i>self</i>, depends on ways of relating to other people and to the social world as a whole.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The book is phenomenological in emphasis throughout. Where the terms &#8220;intentionality&#8221; and &#8220;intentional state&#8221; are used in what follows, they refer to experiences <i>of</i> something or other, such as hearing, remembering, or imagining something. I take having an experience of something to be sufficient for <i>being in an intentional state</i>, in the phenomenological sense of the term. However, although the relevant experience usually includes a sense of the kind of intentional state one is in, I concede that the phenomenology alone does not always suffice to determine one&#8217;s actual intentional state. An unambiguous experience of hoping that <i>p</i>, fearing that <i>p</i>, or feeling guilty about <i>p</i> is plausibly sufficient for being in a state of hope, fear, or guilt. In contrast, whether or not you remember that <i>p</i> depends not only on whether you have an experience of remembering that <i>p</i> but also on whether or not <i>p</i> actually happened. While I do not dismiss the possibility of a distinct and wholly nonphenomenological conception of intentionality, it is not my concern here. Furthermore, I maintain that, in those cases that do involve an experience of being directed at something in one or another way, the relevant experience inevitably has some bearing on what kind of intentional state the person is actually in.<sup><span id="n1-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f1-1">1</a></span></sup> So my object of inquiry cannot be sidestepped by construing intentionality as something independent of any associated experience, at least not in the human case (and not in any other case where there is an experience of perceiving rather than thinking, believing rather than imagining, and so forth).</p>
			<p class="Tx">We are owed a more detailed analysis of what the sense of being in a given intentional state consists of, but the philosophical task is seldom acknowledged, let alone pursued. Perhaps, for most of us and for most of the time, it is so obvious that we are in one type of intentional state rather than another that the question of how we manage to distinguish between kinds of intentionality does not occur to us. However, the modal structure of intentionality is no mere curiosity, of interest only to those phenomenologists who enjoy analyzing the finer details of experience and to others who study certain psychopathological phenomena. In fact, it is absolutely fundamental to the structure of human experience. As I will show, were it completely absent, there could be no appreciation of occupying a particular spatial and temporal location, and therefore no sense of perspective at all. For this reason, I maintain that the modal structure of intentionality is inextricable from what others have called &#8220;minimal self,&#8221; a primitive form of self-awareness that is integral to all experiences (e.g., Zahavi 2014). Furthermore, once minimal self is construed as principally (but perhaps not solely) a matter of the modal structure of intentionality, it can be characterized more clearly and in much more detail.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Perhaps, one might think, the sense of perceiving something rather than remembering it is wholly constituted by the <i>content</i> of an experience, that at least some aspects of experiential content are specific to certain kinds of intentional state and thus serve to identify them.<sup><span id="n1-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f1-2">2</a></span></sup> For example, a cat, as perceived visually, differs in certain ways from an imagined or remembered cat. So why bother to raise the question in the laborious way I do here, when the answer is simple and obvious? In fact, the relevant aspect of experience turns out to be multifaceted and complicated. As my consideration of auditory verbal hallucinations and thought insertion will demonstrate, the sense of being in a given type of intentional state is not just a matter of characteristic content. One can have an experiential content more like that of an imagining than that of a perception, and yet have the sense of perceiving something. Furthermore, there can be varying degrees of tension between content and other aspects of sense, resulting in ambiguous experiences that straddle the boundaries between familiar kinds of intentionality. In such cases, I argue, sense is not to be accounted for by appealing to the contribution made by a separate act or attitudinal quality. It is something that cannot be exhaustively characterized in terms of intentional attitude, intentional content, or a combination of the two. Hence my question is not, after all, an easy one to answer.</p>
			<p class="Tx">To account for anomalous experiences of intentionality, the chapters that follow progressively develop the view that different kinds of intentionality incorporate characteristic patterns of anticipation and fulfillment, which are central to the sense of being in a given type of intentional state. For instance, perceptual experiences and episodic memories ordinarily unfold in different ways. A perceived situation might involve feelings of uncertainty or doubt over what is coming next, as well as occasional experiences of anomaly and/or surprise, which are altogether lacking or at least diminished when a sequence of events is remembered. Imagining has an anticipation-fulfilment profile that distinguishes it from both perception and memory, accommodating spatially and temporally unstructured scenarios that can depart wildly from anything that is remembered, currently perceived, or anticipated, but without any sense of potential or actual discrepancy or surprise.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I further show how the various temporal patterns are embedded within an all-enveloping anticipatory structure that is not itself a form of intentionality, at least not in the same meaning of the term, and that they depend on it for their integrity and distinctiveness. Drawing on themes in the work of Edmund Husserl, Karl Jaspers, and Ludwig Wittgenstein, I attempt to clarify a kind of conviction that is integral to this structure, something that is sometimes referred to in terms of &#8220;confidence,&#8221; &#8220;certainty,&#8221; or &#8220;trust.&#8221; It is importantly different from &#8220;belief,&#8221; where belief is construed as taking something to be the case or taking something not to be the case. Something must already be in place for belief to be possible, something that renders intelligible the distinction between taking <i>p</i> to be the case and taking <i>p</i> not to be the case. By implication, it enables and sustains the modalities of intentionality more generally, given that all other kinds of intentionality are in one way or another dependent on this overarching distinction.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Importantly, in reflecting on the anticipatory structure of experience and the kinds of change it is susceptible to, we also come to appreciate the extent to which and the manner in which experience and thought are embedded in the interpersonal world. I will make clear how the modal structure of intentionality is inseparable from ways of experiencing and relating to specific individuals, other people in general, and the social world as a whole. It is shaped by social development, and it continues to be interpersonally sustained and regulated even during adulthood. Hence it turns out that human experience is intersubjective through and through. The aim is not just to assert or argue <i>that</i> this is the case; I seek to show exactly <i>how</i> it is the case.</p>
			<p class="Tx">That is an outline of the philosophical position to be developed and defended here. However, this is equally a book about the nature of psychiatric illness, which offers a detailed account of the phenomena of <i>auditory verbal hallucination</i> (hereafter, AVH) and <i>thought insertion</i> (hereafter, TI). I could have offered a wider-ranging discussion of anomalous experiences or addressed other kinds of experience instead. But, as the overarching aim is to develop an integrated account of (a) the modal structure of intentionality and (b) how interpersonal relations shape experience and thought, AVH and TI are especially effective examples. Throughout the discussion, two very different accounts of AVH remain in the background (both of which are further described in chapter 2). On the one hand, there is the view associated with phenomenological psychopathology that AVH, TI, and other seemingly localized &#8220;symptoms&#8221; presuppose more fundamental and enveloping disturbances of minimal selfhood, disturbances that are either specific to schizophrenia or at least most pronounced in schizophrenia. This lends itself to a somewhat individualistic approach. In that respect, it is to be contrasted with a position associated with the Hearing Voices Movement. According to this position, AVHs are meaningful symptoms of interpersonally induced trauma. As such, they are essentially relational in nature, and are most effectively &#8220;treated&#8221; through kinds of interpersonal process that seek to minimize distress caused by voices and empower the subject. In addition, it is maintained that the diagnostic category &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; is either misapplied in many instances or altogether misguided. Despite the apparent tension between these two broad approaches, I accept that both contain important insights, and I seek to navigate a path between them. Another reason for focusing specifically on AVH and TI is that these experiences are explicitly relational in structure. One experiences the &#8220;voice&#8221; or the thoughts <i>of</i> someone else, often as addressing oneself. Furthermore, a person&#8217;s relationship with her voices or inserted thoughts often resembles her relationship with the wider social world. In what follows, I will argue that the interpersonal is central to an understanding of AVH and TI. While this applies equally to many other phenomena that are labeled as &#8220;delusions&#8221; or &#8220;hallucinations,&#8221; AVH and TI illustrate the point particularly well, given that the relevant disturbance of interpersonal experience is reflected both in their structure and in their content.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Although the discussion of AVH serves as a starting point from which to formulate phenomenological claims with wider applicability, there are also more specific lessons to be learned about the nature of hallucination. Appeals to hallucination are commonplace in philosophy, especially in discussions of perception. In this context, a &#8220;hallucination&#8221; is usually a kind of hypothetical experience, the possibility of which poses a problem for certain philosophical positions. As Macpherson (2013, 1) writes, &#8220;the traditional philosophical conception includes perceptual experiences, identical in nature to experiences that could be had while perceiving the world, save only that they are had while not perceiving.&#8221; Thus, if I have a visual hallucination of my children standing in front of me, I have an experience that is phenomenologically indistinguishable from one of actually seeing my children standing in front of me. Now, one might insist that philosophers&#8217; hallucinations and real hallucinations (such as those that arise in psychiatric illness) comprise two different subject matters. For the philosopher, what matters is the possibility (usually the metaphysical possibility) or otherwise of a certain kind of experience, rather than its actuality. So it does not matter if real hallucinations turn out to be substantially different from those that generate philosophical worries. Then again, it should be noted that, in the scientific and clinical literature, real hallucinations are often defined in much the same way:</p>
			<p class="E">Hallucinations are usually defined as perceptions that occur in the absence of any appropriate stimulus. (Frith 1992, 68)</p>
			<p class="E">Hallucinations are perceptions which occur in the absence of appropriate external stimulation; they can be found in a wide variety of clinical conditions ranging from functional psychosis to focal brain damage. (Halligan and Marshall 1996, 242)</p>
			<p class="E">Voices are defined as a sensory perception that has a compelling sense of reality, but which occurs without external stimulation of the sensory organ. (Hayward, Berry, and Ashton 2011, 1314)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">In both cases, hallucinating is said to involve having an experience that resembles a veridical perceptual experience, but in the absence of an appropriate relation between the experience and something external to it. The main difference between real and philosophers&#8217; hallucinations is that the latter are cleaner&#8212;not just <i>much like</i> veridical perceptions but <i>phenomenologically indistinguishable</i> from them. A philosophers&#8217; hallucination can also be wider ranging and longer lasting; it might envelop one&#8217;s ongoing experience of the world as a whole, rather than being transient and localized. As indicated by its title, this book is concerned with real hallucinations, rather than with hallucinations cooked up by philosophers. And one of the things I hope to illustrate is that real hallucinations turn out to be much more diverse, complicated, and philosophically interesting than the hypothetical cases. However, insofar as similarity to actual cases might be invoked to make philosophers&#8217; hallucinations seem more plausible or intuitive, the discussion is relevant to the latter as well.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In fact, some of those phenomena that are routinely referred to as &#8220;hallucinations&#8221; in psychiatric contexts are quite unlike veridical perceptual experiences. If you like, &#8220;real hallucinations&#8221; are not always &#8220;orthodox hallucinations.&#8221; Although I focus principally on supposedly &#8220;auditory, verbal&#8221; experiences, which are more commonly reported in psychiatric illness than hallucinations in other modalities, much of what I say here applies to hallucinations more generally. One of the first things to note is that the term &#8220;AVH&#8221; encompasses a range of potentially very different phenomena. There are also hermeneutic difficulties; it is not at all clear how to interpret first-person accounts that might naively be taken to convey orthodox hallucinations. My approach is to distinguish and focus specifically on a substantial subset of AVH experiences, which are singled out both by their phenomenology and by the manner in which they arise. These experiences lack some or all auditory qualities and do not seem to originate in the external environment. They are importantly unlike veridical auditory experiences and instead, I maintain, involve a blurring of the experienced boundaries between intentional state types. What we have is an unfamiliar kind of experience, which is perception-like in some respects but not in others. This interpretation also accommodates TI. In fact, it turns out that certain kinds of AVH are TI under another description. Showing how these two descriptions are compatible serves to further illuminate the nature of the relevant experience and to support the claim that the structure of intentionality is disrupted. Later on, I explain how my approach is able to accommodate other kinds of AVH as well. However, at no point do I claim to offer a comprehensive account of <i>all</i> those experiences that might be referred to as such; they are simply too many and too diverse.</p>
			<p class="Tx">As well as being of philosophical interest, the position I develop has potential implications for the understanding and treatment of psychiatric illness. On my account, AVHs are not phenomenologically isolated symptoms, but neither are they reliably associated with established syndromes (clusters of commonly associated symptoms), such as schizophrenia. Much the same kind of AVH experience could be associated with several different diagnostic categories. While this does not directly challenge current classification systems or diagnostic practices, the phenomenological analyses and distinctions offered here could potentially feed into the project of devising more principled classifications for one or another purpose. For instance, I raise some questions concerning the specificity of certain kinds of experience to schizophrenia and the legitimacy of the schizophrenia construct. Most importantly, I emphasize the need to conceive of certain kinds of anomalous experience as inseparable from a wider interpersonal and social environment, rather than as disorders of the individual that subsequently affect interpersonal and social relations.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I have stated that this project is a phenomenological one. For current purposes, phenomenological research is to be construed in a permissive way. My thinking is inspired in many ways by the phenomenological tradition of philosophy. In particular, I draw on some of Husserl&#8217;s later work at a crucial point in the argument. Nevertheless, this book is not phenomenological in a way that is to be contrasted with work outside of that tradition. There is nothing in what follows to prevent those who are not in any way wedded to phenomenology (in a more restrictive sense of the term) from endorsing both my position and my arguments for that position.<sup><span id="n1-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f1-3">3</a></span></sup> Phenomenological research, as conceived of here, is also situated within a wider field of inquiry. Throughout my discussion, it is in dialogue with other areas of philosophy, and with other disciplines. In particular, I seek to illustrate how phenomenology can interact with the cognitive sciences (broadly construed) in ways that are mutually illuminating. My phenomenological analysis takes account of a range of empirical findings. Conversely, it assists in clarifying the subject matter of empirical studies, by calling into question certain prevalent assumptions about AVHs and related phenomena that have served to shape inquiry.<sup><span id="n1-4"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f1-4">4</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">The argument proceeds as follows. Chapter 2 sets up some of the central concepts, themes, and issues in more detail. First of all, I introduce the concept of minimal self and its recent application to schizophrenia and AVH. Then I address the question of whether minimal selfhood includes merely the sense of having some kind of experience or, in addition to this, a more specific sense of the type of intentional state one is in. I propose a refined account of minimal self, according to which it centrally involves the latter: a grasp of the <i>modalities of intentionality</i>. I also suggest that some anomalous experiences centrally involve disturbances of modal structure. Following this, I turn to the alternative view that AVHs are diagnostically nonspecific, meaningful symptoms of interpersonal trauma. In so doing, I stress the need to place more emphasis on the interpersonal aspects of psychiatric illness, and show how minimal self, as conceived of here, could turn out to be both developmentally and constitutively dependent on ways of relating to other people. The chapter concludes by considering other recent formulations of the view that delusions and hallucinations originate in a confusion of or blurring between intentional state types, and distinguishing them from my own approach.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Chapter 3 begins by considering the possibility that a number of factors contribute to the sense of being in an intentional state, and that these can come into conflict. The remainder of the chapter argues that TI and certain kinds of AVH are to be understood in this way. There is a difference between experiencing a process of thinking as alien and experiencing thought content as alien. I argue that TI involves the latter. Hence it could just as well be described as experiencing one&#8217;s own thought contents in a strange, perception-like way. To further support this interpretation, I turn to AVHs and show that a substantial proportion of experiences that are described in AVH terms can equally be conveyed in terms of TI. In fact, people sometimes describe the same experience in both ways. What we have is an anomalous experience that lies somewhere between thinking and perceiving. The content of the experience continues to resemble that of a thought. Even so, a sense of perceiving predominates. More generally, both hallucinations and delusions can involve an altered sense of <i>what it is to be present or real</i>. So they are not simply to be thought of in terms of taking something to be the case that is not the case or experiencing something as present that is not present. The chapter concludes by arguing that it is unhelpful to conceive of AVH or TI in terms of a distinction between agency and subjectivity or ownership.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Chapter 4 develops a more specific account of what AVHs consist of and how they arise. It focuses, to begin with, on those that involve a quasi-perceptual experience of &#8220;inner speech&#8221; or &#8220;inner dialogue.&#8221; Such experiences are often preceded by heightened social anxiety, and I argue that anxious anticipation of one&#8217;s own thought contents as they arise can constitute an experience of thought content as alien. This approach is then broadened to accommodate not only inner dialogue but also imagination and memory. I further suggest that other kinds of AVH, which are experienced as external in origin and more akin to veridical auditory experiences, can likewise be accounted for in terms of anxious anticipation, but that they come about in a different way. I also make clear how AVHs can fall somewhere in between the internal, nonauditory and external, auditory poles, rather than fitting neatly into one or the other category. The chapter concludes by noting that AVHs tend to be associated with wider-ranging disturbances in a person&#8217;s relationship with the social world, often involving unpleasant interpersonal circumstances. This sets the scene for an exploration of more enveloping and enduring phenomenological disturbances, in which AVHs are embedded.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In chapter 5, I address the nature of nonlocalized phenomenological changes that can be brought about by traumatic events. The chapter focuses on traumatic events in adulthood. These are often described as <i>shattering</i> something that was previously in place. A kind of all-enveloping trust, confidence, or certainty is eroded or lost. To interpret such experiences, I draw on and further develop an analysis offered by Husserl in some of his later work, according to which the modalities of intentionality are embedded in a distinctive kind of anticipation-fulfillment structure, involving a bodily, habitual sense of certainty that pervades experience and gives it structure. First-person accounts of traumatic experience point to global disruption of this structure. Furthermore, although traumatic events inflicted by others might shape how one experiences and relates to people rather than the world as a whole, I make clear why the <i>style </i>in which we relate to others is inextricable from the wider integrity of experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Chapter 6 brings the various strands of argument together and states the overall position. It addresses several interrelated ways in which other people are implicated in the development, sustenance, and disruption of the modal structure of intentionality. First of all, I consider some of the roles that relations with others play in shaping perceptual experience, focusing on how the cohesive, anticipatory structure of perceptual experience is interpersonally regulated. Then I turn to belief. Drawing on Jaspers and Wittgenstein, I argue that the structure of belief, the intelligibility of the distinction between what is and is not the case, rests on a more primitive sense of certainty, which can be identified with the anticipation-fulfillment dynamic described by Husserl. More generally, the sense of being in a given type of intentional state is largely attributable to its distinctive anticipation-fulfillment profile, and all such profiles depend on an overarching pattern of anticipation and fulfillment, in the guise of habitual confidence or certainty. This pattern is inextricable from a certain way of experiencing and relating to other people in general. When the overall anticipation-fulfillment structure of experience is disrupted, the boundaries between types of intentional states become less clear. This renders a person susceptible to more pronounced and localized disruptions, of the kind implicated in certain delusions and hallucinations. I go on to show how the overall position is consistent with a substantial body of evidence pointing to strong links between traumatic experience during childhood, adulthood, or both, and the subsequent onset of psychosis. Implications for the diagnostic category &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; are also considered, followed by some implications for how we go about interpreting first-person accounts. The chapter concludes by exploring some affinities between my phenomenological approach and recent neurobiological work on predictive coding.</p>
			<p class="Tx">In chapter 7, the scope of the discussion is widened to include other kinds of hallucination. While allowing that some of these experiences <i>may</i> conform to orthodox definitions of hallucination (according to which a hallucination resembles a veridical perceptual experience but occurs in the absence of the appropriate stimulus), I make clear that many others do not. Drawing on Merleau-Ponty&#8217;s remarks on hallucination in <i>Phenomenology of Perception</i>, I identify a kind of experience that differs both from orthodox hallucinations and from the kinds of experience described in earlier chapters. While it is not modally ambiguous, it is also quite unlike a veridical perceptual experience. It includes a sense of salient and significant possibilities, of the kind that might be associated with encountering a given entity or type of entity. However, other aspects of perceptual experience are lacking. I go on to consider experiences that appear to conflict with my account: AVHs that console and bring comfort. Among other things, I argue that it is unclear how to interpret reports to the effect that a malevolent voice has not disappeared but has instead become supportive and ceased to be a source of distress. In short, exactly the same experience could be described in terms of a voice becoming supportive or, alternatively, in terms of its disappearance. Even so, I concede that some AVHs are quite different from those so far described. In particular, I address hallucinations that occur in grief and bring comfort. The phenomenology of grief further illustrates the extent to which the integrity of experience depends on relations with others, and&#8212;in this case&#8212;on specific individuals. Furthermore, during profound grief, experiences of the presence and absence of the deceased are multifaceted and often ambiguous. It is wrong to think of these experiences in simple terms, as someone seeming to be there or seeming not to be there. Again, we see that the sense of presence and reality, which is inseparable from the wider modal structure of intentionality, is not singular or unitary.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Chapter 8 draws the discussion to a close by summarizing and further exploring some philosophical implications of my position. In particular, I address the nature of &#8220;belief,&#8221; and argue that this term, even when it is used in a restrictive and technical way, most likely accommodates a range of subtly different kinds of conviction, different ways of taking something to be the case. This applies not only to psychiatric illness, but also more generally. Issues are therefore raised for the practice of philosophy itself. When one is said to believe a philosophical claim, it is not always clear what kind of conviction is involved or, for that matter, which kinds of conviction are appropriate to which kinds of philosophical position. More generally, the structure of intentionality encompasses a wide range of different intentional state types and does not respect clear-cut, categorical distinctions between them. These subtleties are masked by certain uses of language, in philosophy and elsewhere. Reliance on univocal notions of &#8220;belief,&#8221; &#8220;desire,&#8221; and the like is thus rendered problematic.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
