<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Real Hallucinations</title>
		<link href="css/ExportCSS.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="x10594_002" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<div><a id="chap2"/></div>
			<p class="CT">2 Schizophrenia and Selfhood</p>
			<p class="TxNI">This chapter introduces the concept of minimal self and critically discusses its application to the phenomenology of schizophrenia. I acknowledge that appeals to disturbances of minimal self in schizophrenia are illuminating, insofar as they emphasize how seemingly localized experiences such as AVHs (auditory verbal hallucinations) arise in the context of profound changes in the overall structure of experience. However, I also suggest that a clearer and more specific account of the nature of minimal self is needed. To supply this, I ask whether minimal self incorporates only the sense that one is <i>having an experience</i> or whether it further includes a sense of the kind of intentional state one is in, the <i>kind of experience</i> one is having. The answer, I argue, has to be the latter. Minimal self centrally involves a grasp of the modal structure of intentionality, a prereflective appreciation of being in one or another kind of intentional state, such as perceiving or remembering. Furthermore, anomalous experiences, of the kind attributed to alterations of minimal self, are plausibly interpreted as disturbances of this modal structure.</p>
			<p class="Tx">I go on to raise the concern that an emphasis on minimal self risks understating the interpersonal and social aspects of psychiatric illness. To do so, I examine an alternative approach, associated with the Hearing Voices Movement. According to this approach, AVHs are meaningful manifestations of distress that usually have interpersonal causes, as opposed to symptoms of an illness called &#8220;schizophrenia.&#8221; Drawing inspiration from both perspectives, I sketch the position to be developed in the remainder of the book, according to which the modal structure of intentionality, and by implication the minimal self, is developmentally and constitutively dependent on interpersonal relations. I do not insist on retaining the term &#8220;minimal self,&#8221; and my analysis of the modal structure of intentionality does not require it. What I do maintain is that, if certain kinds of anomalous experience are to be accounted for in terms of a &#8220;minimal self,&#8221; then it <i>must</i> centrally involve the modal structure of intentionality. In addition, it turns out to be relational in nature. Appeals to something more minimal than this lack explanatory power in the context of psychiatric illness. More generally, it is doubtful that they succeed in referring to anything that is not already accommodated by an emphasis on the modal structure of intentionality. The chapter concludes by distinguishing the position laid out here from other versions of the view that delusions and hallucinations originate in some form of confusion between kinds of intentional state.</p>
			<div><a id="part1"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">2.1 </span>Minimal Self</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The concept of minimal self is to be understood in exclusively phenomenological terms. Dan Zahavi has provided what is perhaps the most detailed characterization to date. All our experiences, he maintains, have a &#8220;first-personal character&#8221;; their structure incorporates a sense of mineness, of their originating in a singular locus of experience. Minimal self is not an object of experience or thought, and neither is it an awareness of subjectivity that exists independently of our various other experiences. Instead, it is inextricable from &#8220;the distinct manner, or <i>how</i>, of experiencing.&#8221; So it is a condition of possibility for experience, rather than an isolable component of experience. And it is a necessary structural feature of experience, rather than something that is already in place before experiences occur, something <i>before</i> or <i>behind</i> those experiences.<sup><span id="n2-1"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-1">1</a></span></sup> As such, it does not depend on language, narrative, or rational judgment, and is presupposed by such capacities. To conceive of minimal self in isolation from the rest of experience is to perform an abstraction. Nevertheless, while &#8220;intertwined&#8221; with other aspects of experience, it still has &#8220;experiential reality&#8221; (Zahavi 2014, 22, 89). It is a real and distinguishable aspect of experience, just as one side of a coin is real and distinguishable from the other, despite the two being inseparable. The claim is not that minimal self is the only kind of self. As Zahavi acknowledges, &#8220;self&#8221; can legitimately refer to a range of different phenomena (phenomenological or otherwise), all of which need to be carefully distinguished from one another. However, minimal self is at least the most fundamental or primitive notion of self, and is presupposed by any other kind of <i>self-experience</i> that might be postulated.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It has been further proposed that this basic sense of self is somehow eroded (although not entirely lost) in schizophrenia. Thus, while the &#8220;minimal self&#8221; view serves to clarify the phenomenology of schizophrenia, self-disturbance in schizophrenia constitutes evidence for the claim that experience incorporates minimal selfhood.<sup><span id="n2-2"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-2">2</a></span></sup> For example, Sass (2014a, 5&#8211;6) states that schizophrenia involves a &#8220;disturbance of minimal- or core-self experience,&#8221; of &#8220;ipseity,&#8221; something that concerns the &#8220;sense of existing as a vital and self-identical <i>subject</i> of experience or <i>agent</i> of action.&#8221; Parnas et al. (2005, 240) similarly describe the erosion of a &#8220;first-person perspective&#8221; that is more usually &#8220;automatic,&#8221; while Fuchs (2013, 248) refers to disruption of a &#8220;first-person perspective&#8221; that &#8220;inhabits all modes of intentionality and imbues them with a sense of mineness.&#8221; It is also claimed that a degree or type of self-disturbance distinguishes the phenomenology of schizophrenia from that of other psychiatric conditions.<sup><span id="n2-3"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-3">3</a></span></sup> The latter either do not involve changes in minimal-self experience or they involve changes that are less profound than those found in schizophrenia and perhaps qualitatively different as well (Raballo, S&#230;bye, and Parnas 2009). So this kind of approach has a potential role to play in differential diagnosis. Indeed, Parnas et al. (2005) have devised a detailed interview, the &#8220;Examination of Anomalous Self-Experience&#8221; or &#8220;EASE,&#8221; with the aim of reliably detecting anomalous experiences that are indicative of schizophrenia-specific self-disorder.</p>
			<p class="Tx">According to the self-disorder approach, seemingly localized symptoms such as delusions and hallucinations develop in the context of global changes in the structure of experience, and are inevitably misunderstood when conceived of in isolation from those changes. AVHs, for instance, are not &#8220;atomistic, self-sufficient, thing-like symptoms,&#8221; but &#8220;meaningfully interrelated facets of a more comprehensive and characteristic gestalt change in the patient&#8217;s experience (field of consciousness) and existence&#8221; (Lar&#248;i et al. 2010, 235). The overall approach is consistent with there being causal relations between some symptoms and noncausal relations of implication, mutual implication, or even identity between others. For instance, changes in the structure of experience might <i>cause</i> anxiety, which then has an effect on other symptoms, perhaps exacerbating or otherwise altering them. Causal relations between symptoms can also include compensatory and defensive reactions. However, a diminished sense of agency might be said to <i>imply</i> a perceived world that appears bereft of salient possibilities for meaningful action, and vice versa, while loss of affective response to things and an experience of them as somehow strange, distant, and unfamiliar may add up to different descriptions of a singular phenomenological change (e.g., Sass 2003; Sass and Parnas 2007; Sass and Borda 2015). But regardless of what the finer details might look like, the consistent, underlying theme is that schizophrenia centrally involves a global change in the structure of experience, which encompasses a more usually taken-for-granted and phenomenologically primitive sense of self.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The &#8220;minimal self&#8221; view is consistent with various first-person accounts of anomalous experience and may also aid in their interpretation. The following passage, from a memoir of schizophrenia by Ely Saks, if often quoted as a first-person description of minimal-self disruption:</p>
			<p class="E">Consciousness gradually loses its coherence. One&#8217;s center gives way. The center cannot hold. The &#8220;me&#8221; becomes a haze, and the solid center from which one experiences reality breaks up like a bad radio signal. There is no longer a sturdy vantage point from which to look out, take things in, assess what&#8217;s happening. No core holds things together, providing the lens through which to see the world, to make judgments and comprehend risk. Random movements of time follow one another. Sights, sounds, thoughts, and feelings don&#8217;t go together. No organizing principle takes successive moments in time and puts them together in a coherent way from which sense can be made. And it&#8217;s all taking place in slow motion. (Saks 2007, 12)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">Such descriptions, it is suggested, point to a profound loss of phenomenological integrity and unity.<sup><span id="n2-4"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-4">4</a></span></sup> This is not simply a matter of having anomalous experiential contents of whatever kind; the very sense of having a singular, unitary perspective, of being a coherent locus of experience, breaks down.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The position to be developed in this book acknowledges that human experience includes something along the lines of the &#8220;minimal self,&#8221; and also that schizophrenia diagnoses are sometimes associated with changes in this aspect of experience. However, it is critical of an associated tendency to downplay or leave unspecified the role of interpersonal experience and relatedness. Of course, significant changes in the structure of self-awareness <i>imply</i> changes in the capacity to experience and relate to other people. That much is uncontroversial. But we might also wonder whether social relations play a role in the development or even the constitution of minimal self. According to Zahavi, they do not. Minimal self, he says, is not &#8220;a product of social interaction or the result of a higher cognitive accomplishment.&#8221; Rather, it is &#8220;a basic and indispensable experiential feature,&#8221; one that is not &#8220;constitutively dependent upon social interaction&#8221; (Zahavi 2014, 63, 95). Hence minimal self is present before the development of social abilities and is also a precondition for their development. It continues to underlie the interpersonal abilities of adults, as an enduring, presocial, phenomenological core.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This way of thinking is consistent with applications of the &#8220;minimal self&#8221; view to the phenomenology of schizophrenia. While it is widely acknowledged that some of the earliest and most salient symptoms of schizophrenia are interpersonal in nature, it is proposed that these symptoms originate in a &#8220;fragmentation from within&#8221; (Henriksen, Raballo, and Parnas 2015, 176). A primitive, presocial sense of self is disrupted, and so the primary cause is not to be found in the social world. Instead, the aim should be to identify preexistent &#8220;self-disorders&#8221; that &#8220;antedate the onset of psychosis&#8221; and render a person susceptible to it (Raballo and Parnas 2011, 1018). It is further proposed that early intervention, and with it improved outcomes, can be facilitated by the detection of characteristic &#8220;experiential anomalies&#8221; that often arise well before psychotic symptoms (Cermolacce, Naudin, and Parnas 2007). In addition, it is claimed that more subtle disturbances of self are detectable in nonpsychotic but high-risk subjects, such as first-degree relatives of those with schizophrenia diagnoses (Raballo and Parnas 2011). Some advocates of the view take familial risk factors to indicate genetic causes. For instance, Raballo, S&#230;bye and Parnas (2009, 348) go so far as to suggest that the &#8220;primary relevance&#8221; of work on self-disorder in schizophrenia is to &#8220;etiological research into the genetic architecture of schizophrenia.&#8221;</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, it should be noted that, even if minimal self is developmentally and constitutively independent of social interaction, this remains compatible with the view that schizophrenia is, or at least can be, socially caused. More generally, something that does not depend on other people for its development or sustenance can still be disrupted by them. For instance, having a brain does not require a history of social interaction, but brains are not immune to injuries inflicted by other people. So the claim that schizophrenia involves disturbance of a presocial sense of self does not imply a nonsocial account of its origins. The most we can say is that the two are consistent and that talk of &#8220;self-disorder&#8221; may dispose an inquirer to focus on the individual, rather than on the social environment. Nevertheless, the aim of this book is not to advocate an alternative or complementary emphasis on the social causes of schizophrenia. Instead, I will argue that our most basic sense of self is developmentally dependent on interactions with other people. Furthermore, it is interpersonally sustained, and thus continues to depend on other people even in adulthood. Therefore, minimal self is inseparable from the interpersonal. Although this complements an emphasis on social causes, it is equally compatible with there being nonsocial causes. To develop the position, I will start by offering a more specific account of what minimal self consists of.</p>
			<div><a id="part2"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">2.2 </span>Modalities of Intentionality</p>
			<p class="TxNI">When appealing to the phenomenological reality of &#8220;minimal self,&#8221; &#8220;ipseity,&#8221; &#8220;a basic sense of mineness,&#8221; and so forth, it is unclear what more can be said to someone who professes not to understand these claims or simply refuses to accept them. It will not do to repeat much the same thing again and again, in however many different ways, and eventually concede that there is nothing more to be said. This would leave us with something little or no better than the vague talk of &#8220;what-it-is-like-ness&#8221; and &#8220;how-it-is-ness&#8221; that has plagued philosophy of mind for some years. Even if such talk succeeds in <i>referring</i> to experience or to some aspect of experience, it provides us with little or nothing by way of <i>description</i>. Thankfully, though, it is possible to offer a clearer and more precise account of what minimal self consists of, an account that opens up the possibility of describing its structure in considerable detail, along with the kinds of disruption it is susceptible to. The first step is to ask just how minimal the minimal self can be: does it incorporate only the sense that you are having some kind of experience, or does it also include the sense that you are having an experience of one or another type, such as perceiving, imagining, engaging in inner speech, or remembering?</p>
			<p class="Tx">I maintain that even <i>minimal</i> selfhood must include a sense of the kind of intentional state one is in, a sense of the modalities of intentionality. I would even go so far as to suggest that an account of the modal structure of intentionality just <i>is</i> an account of minimal self&#8212;that nothing else needs to be added. Of course, one might object that the appreciation of a perceptual experience as perceptual and of an imagining as an imagining does not entail the sense of being a singular locus of experience that is responsible for both of them. A weaker claim would be that the modalities of intentionality are necessary but not sufficient for minimal self, and the argument of this book does not require anything more than this. Nevertheless, once it is made clear how the modalities of intentionality are embedded in a unitary anticipation-fulfillment structure, which is itself inextricable from a cohesive set of felt bodily dispositions (a position developed in chapters 5 and 6), I think we have all the unity we need. And, as the modalities of intentionality are bound up with certain kinds of bodily experience, there is no need to appeal to the bodily sense of self as an additional aspect or component. So, if we want to pin down what, exactly, minimal selfhood consists of, I think the most promising approach is to focus on the modalities of intentionality. Unless and until some additional ingredient is clearly described, the task of providing a comprehensive phenomenological account of the structure of intentionality can be identified with that of describing the structure of minimal self.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The question &#8220;What constitutes the sense of being in one or another kind of intentional state?&#8221; is seldom raised and may strike the reader as unfamiliar. I will therefore start by spelling out, in more detail, what it amounts to. Suppose I am currently looking through a window at what appears to be a bird. I could be mistaken about what I see, and I might well experience some degree of doubt concerning what it is. However, I have no doubt that I am seeing something or other. Even though I am not sure what I see, the status of my experience as one of seeing is never in question. Furthermore, I do not need to explicitly infer that I am seeing; I have a prereflective, immediate, unproblematic appreciation of the experience as one of seeing. To be less specific, I take myself to be perceiving something, rather than, say, remembering it. Among other things, the experience of perceiving something through one or another sensory modality involves a sense of that entity as <i>here</i>, <i>now</i>. In cases of externally directed perception, there is also a sense of its being distinct from and usually in close proximity to oneself.<sup><span id="n2-5"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-5">5</a></span></sup> Let us focus on this prereflective sense of something or other as both distinct from me and also <i>here</i>, <i>now</i>, the sense of its <i>presence</i>. This may not be sufficient for the sense of perceiving, and it is certainly not sufficient for the sense of perceiving something through one sensory modality rather than another. Nevertheless, presence is at least necessary for an unproblematic experience of relating to entity <i>p</i> in a perceptual way. Of course, we could have an experience of <i>p</i> that is somehow ambiguous in this respect and then infer from other sources of evidence that we are perceiving rather than imagining <i>p</i>. However, we only resort to such inferences in instances of unusual experience, which lack something that more usually identifies an experience as one of perceiving. It is this <i>something</i> that I am concerned with here.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The point applies equally to other kinds of intentional state. In remembering that <i>p</i>, we usually have an immediate, unproblematic sense of <i>p</i> as past, rather than present, imagined, or anticipated. When imagining, there is a sense of <i>p</i> as neither past nor present. In some instances of imagining, <i>p</i> is anticipated or at least taken to be possible. In others, <i>p</i> is recognized as counterfactual or even impossible.<sup><span id="n2-6"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-6">6</a></span></sup> Hence there is a kind of phenomenological achievement to be accounted for here, one that is ordinarily so straightforward and unproblematic that it passes unnoticed.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Broad categories such as &#8220;imagination,&#8221; &#8220;memory,&#8221; and &#8220;perception&#8221; all accommodate a range of more specific phenomena. So, rather than talking about &#8220;imagining&#8221; and &#8220;remembering&#8221; as distinct from &#8220;perceiving,&#8221; we could introduce various subcategories of imagination and memory, as well as different forms of sensory perception. For instance, we might distinguish linguistic or propositional from imagistic imagining (e.g., Currie and Ravenscroft 2002; Goldman 2006). Furthermore, the term &#8220;imagination&#8221; need not be employed in a contrastive way. We could take the line that perception incorporates imagination and that what we ordinarily refer to as &#8220;imagination&#8221; is the same thing, but restricted to its nonperceptual applications (Strawson 1974), or at least that some types of imagining are inextricable from how we experience the world and are not simply to be contrasted with veridical perception (Hersch 2003). Even if this is so, it does not prohibit us from using the term in a more restrictive, contrastive way, according to which perceiving something involves experiencing it as present, while imagining something ordinarily involves an appreciation that it is not present and never was present. That is the approach adopted here. For the most part, I also restrict myself to fairly general contrasts. Rather than addressing, for instance, how we might distinguish one type of sensory perception from another or how we might distinguish specifically imagistic imagination from an imagistic form of memory, I am concerned with how wider-ranging intentional state types, such as imagining, remembering, and perceiving, are experienced as distinct. At this level of analysis (which is the level at which the kinds of experience addressed in what follows are to be understood), the prereflective ability to discriminate between types of intentional state can be construed in terms of access to a modal space, which includes a sensitivity to distinctions such as these: is here/is elsewhere; was here/was never here; never existed/has ceased to exist/does exist/will exist; might have existed/might exist now/might come to exist. Were we wholly unreceptive to such distinctions, we would be unable to distinguish one type of intentional state from another. More specifically, if our <i>experience</i> were unreceptive to them, we would be unable to <i>experience</i> ourselves as in one intentional state rather than another. Given that our experience is sensitive to these distinctions, it is legitimate to ask what the relevant achievement consists of: in virtue of what do I experience myself as perceiving, remembering, or imagining that <i>p</i>, as opposed to encountering <i>p</i> in a different or less determinate way?<sup><span id="n2-7"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-7">7</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">The sense of being in a given type of intentional state is not simply to be identified with having an experience that is characteristic of being in that state. Furthermore, it is plausible to maintain that neither the sense of being in a given intentional state nor the characteristic experience is sufficient for actually being in a state of that type. Hence the following distinctions need to be drawn:</p>
			<p class="Lf">i.&#9;Actually having an intentional state of type <i>x</i> with respect to entity <i>p</i></p>
			<p class="Lm">ii.&#9;Having an experience that is characteristic of an intentional state of type <i>x</i> with respect to <i>p</i></p>
			<p class="Ll">iii.&#9;Having the sense that one is in an intentional state of type <i>x</i> with respect to <i>p</i></p>
			<p class="TxNI">Some phenomena may involve (ii) in the absence of (i). Suppose that, while <i>p</i> is absent, person B has an experience much like that of being in the presence of <i>p</i>. Given the absence of an appropriate relationship between B and <i>p</i>, this would not be a case of actually perceiving <i>p</i>, at least not if we grant that the term &#8220;perception&#8221; applies only to successful or nondeceptive cases. Where B has an experience of <i>p</i> and mistakenly takes herself to be in the presence of <i>p</i>, we can talk more loosely of &#8220;perceptual experience,&#8221; an experience resembling that which arises when we do perceive something. Where intentionality is construed phenomenologically, as it is here, the relevant experience can be regarded as sufficient for being in an intentional state of one or another kind, given that having an experience <i>of</i> something implies being in some kind of intentional state. However, it is not sufficient for being in a state of perception, even if it turns out to be necessary. The point applies equally to certain other types of intentional state. If you have an experience of remembering something that did not really happen, you cannot be said to actually remember it. And, if you have an experience of imagining something that really happened to you, then it is arguable that you are in fact remembering it rather than imagining it. Even whether or not you are thinking that <i>p</i> arguably depends on whether your experience relates to your environment in the appropriate way. Anecdotal evidence suggests to me that it is not uncommon, while falling asleep listening to the radio, to confuse the words one hears with one&#8217;s own train of thought. On one interpretation, this involves an experience that is characteristic of some form of thinking, while one is actually in a different kind of intentional state.</p>
			<p class="Tx">However, at least some phenomena are better construed in terms of the distinction between (ii) and (iii). For instance, the &#8220;thinking and listening to the radio&#8221; example could instead be interpreted as an experience of hearing, but with a sense of thinking. And take the case of dreaming. Whatever a comprehensive account of dreaming might look like, it is implausible to construe dreaming in terms of having perceptual experiences and beliefs that are no different from those had during wakeful perception. Indeed, it has been suggested that perception- and belief-like experiences that occur while dreaming are actually instances of imagining (Ichikawa 2009). If that is so, it can be added that we do not ordinarily recognize ourselves to be imagining while dreaming. In other words, even if we have experiences that are more like imaginings than like beliefs and perceptions, and even if those experiences <i>are</i> in fact imaginings according to some criterion, the dreamer (usually) lacks something of the sense of imagining. So the view that dreaming is a form of imagining is compatible with the view that it incorporates a partial or complete <i>sense</i> of believing or perceiving, even if other aspects of the experience are unlike believing or perceiving. To understand experiences like this, it is not enough to distinguish between actually being in an intentional state and having a characteristic experience. We need a further distinction between the kind of experience one is having and the kind of intentional state one takes oneself to be in.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The difference between (ii) and (iii) is also illustrated by certain kinds of emotional experience. Now, emotional intentionality differs from imagining, remembering, and perceiving, given that an unambiguous, straightforward experience of being in an emotional state of type <i>x</i> is plausibly sufficient for being in a state of type <i>x</i>, at least in some instances. An experience of hope, fear, or guilt can amount to being in an intentional state of hope, fear, or guilt, regardless of the status of its object. For instance, in contrast to remembering that <i>p</i>, feeling guilty about <i>p</i> does not depend on <i>p</i> actually having happened. One can still be in an intentional state of guilt, even when mistaken in thinking that <i>p</i> ever happened. However, some emotional experiences are messier than this, and it is perhaps not unusual to take oneself to be in an emotional state of type <i>x</i> toward <i>p</i> when one is actually in an emotional state of type <i>y</i>. I might take myself to be happy about B&#8217;s achieving <i>p</i> when I am in fact resentful, or I might think that I do not feel angry with C and later come to realize that I was angry. People sometimes say &#8220;I don&#8217;t know how I feel about <i>p</i>&#8221; or &#8220;I don&#8217;t know what I&#8217;m feeling right now.&#8221; Sometimes, the apparent indeterminacy can be explained in terms of uncertainty over what one <i>should</i> feel in a given situation, rather than what one <i>does</i> feel. In others, it may turn out to be a matter of language: the person struggles to <i>describe</i> her feelings. Other cases may involve ambivalence: two or more conflicting emotions are directed at a common object. Nevertheless, I think that at least some instances remain where the person has an emotional experience but is unsure what kind of emotional experience it is, whether she is in state <i>x</i> or state <i>y</i> with respect to <i>p</i>. Have I stopped caring about <i>p</i> or am I just very tired? Am I angry about <i>p</i> or upset about something else? While the dream case need not involve an experience of indeterminacy, ambiguity, or strangeness, cases of &#8220;not knowing how I feel&#8221; are often different; the sense of indeterminacy or ambiguity is itself phenomenologically salient.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Mere acknowledgment that there is a <i>sense of being in one or another kind of intentional state</i> does not imply anything about what that sense consists of. It need not be construed in terms of something specific, a magic ingredient that is either added to an experience or inserted alongside it, which somehow constitutes the appreciation that it is an experience of one or another type. That in virtue of which an experience is modally unambiguous could involve the absence of something disruptive rather than the presence of something that prevents disruption. Whatever the case, this &#8220;something&#8221; could turn out to be simple or complicated. The chapters that follow will characterize the sense of being in a type of intentional state in a positive way, thus illustrating that it is not just the absence of something disruptive. It should be added that, although I have distinguished between (i), (ii), and (iii), this is not to imply that the three can be neatly separated. In fact, I take the sense of having a perceptual experience of <i>p</i> to be <i>partly constitutive</i> of the relevant experience. Perception can be conceived of in dynamic terms, as an exploratory process that involves appearances unfolding in a structured fashion, in accordance with bodily movements and associated expectations (e.g., Husserl 1948/1973, 1952/1989; No&#235; 2004; Ratcliffe 2008, 2015; Madary 2013). And, in chapters 4 to 6, it will be argued that all forms of intentional experience are essentially dynamic in nature; they incorporate characteristic patterns of anticipation and fulfilment. Insofar as a sense of one&#8217;s intentional state shapes activities and associated expectations, it cannot be insulated from other aspects of the experience. One would not act in ways characteristic of a perceptual process unless one took oneself to be perceiving. So, if the sense of perceiving were removed from an experience, that experience would not be preserved unscathed. Clean cases, where there is a clear-cut, unambiguous, unproblematic sense of having a type <i>x</i> experience but in the complete absence of a type <i>x</i> experience (or vice versa), are thus implausible.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The sense of being in a type of intentional state is also relevant to the determination of which intentional state a person is actually in. Now, one could adopt a nonphenomenological account of what it is to actually <i>be</i> in an intentional state of one or another type. And I do not dismiss the possibility of a nonphenomenological conception of intentionality, as something wholly distinct from the having of experiences. However, where we are concerned with beings that <i>do</i> experience things, it would be a mistake to advocate a complete dissociation between being in an intentional state and having an experience that is characteristic of being in such a state. It is one thing to accept that a perception-like experience might occur in the absence of perception and, conversely, that a perception might occur in the absence of perceptual experience. But a complete divorce between intentional states and associated experiences would be contentious to say the least, raising the skeptical worry that our experiences of perceiving, remembering, or imagining that <i>p</i> do not give us grounds for thinking that we really are perceiving, remembering, or imagining that <i>p</i> (a concern that would apply equally to experiences of thinking skeptical thoughts). It is more plausible to maintain that, where perception does involve having perceptual experience, the phenomenology contributes to perception but is not in itself <i>sufficient</i> for perception. The point applies more specifically to the sense of perceiving. Suppose that types of intentional state are to be identified by their distinctive functional roles, a view that is popular in current philosophy of mind. The sense of being in intentional state <i>x</i> (which is part of a wider experience characteristic of intentional state <i>x</i>) surely impacts on how it relates to other kinds of intentional state and also to behavior. Where there is a sense of perceiving something that is actually imagined, imaginings will relate to other kinds of intentional state, such as beliefs, and also to behavior, in ways that imaginings would more usually not. This is not to suggest that imagination would take on the functional role of perception in its entirety, just that its functional role would plausibly be disrupted in at least some ways and at least to some extent. So, although a person&#8217;s sense of being in an intentional state of type <i>x</i> or <i>y</i> is not sufficient to determine whether she is actually in a state of type <i>x</i> or <i>y</i>, it is at least a contributing factor. Therefore, it is not something that can be partitioned off and ignored by those philosophers with a more general interest in intentionality.<sup><span id="n2-8"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-8">8</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">In insisting that it is like something to perceive that <i>p</i>, which differs from what it is like to imagine, remember, believe, or think that <i>p</i>, I am committed to the view that there is some kind of &#8220;cognitive phenomenology.&#8221; One might therefore object to my overall approach by drawing on arguments to the effect that there is no distinctively <i>cognitive</i> experience. However, I take the line that the nature of cognitive phenomenology can be made clearer by engaging with phenomena such as AVHs and that an account of the modal structure of intentionality, insofar as it is plausible, amounts to a case for cognitive phenomenology and a clarification of what exactly it consists of. Hence it would be a mistake to impose a conception of cognitive phenomenology (or its absence) on our subject matter from the outset.<sup><span id="n2-9"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-9">9</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">Another objection that could be raised at this point is that the nature of the relevant phenomenology is in fact fairly obvious, and is such that my question cannot, after all, be distinguished from more familiar ones. Types of experience, it might be argued, are distinguished by their characteristic contents. Granted, some types of experiential content may be common to a number of modalities. For example, visual perception and visual imagination plausibly have certain features in common. However, in order to distinguish one type of intentional experience from another, all we need insist on is that some aspect of content is both consistently present and modality-specific. It could be added that experiences of all types are <i>transparent</i>. In other words, when we reflect on the nature of any given experience, we find only its content. For instance, when we see or hear something, there is nothing more to the experience than what is seen or heard: &#8220;When we introspect our experiences of hearing, smelling, and tasting, the qualities of which we are directly aware are qualities we experience as being qualities of sounds, odors, and tastes&#8221; (Tye 2002, 142). Hence any phenomenological differences between intentional state types have to be attributed to content; there is no other candidate. The sense of perceiving something, and doing so visually, amounts to nothing more than the having of an experience with a content that is specific to visual perception and distinguishes it from, for instance, visual imagination or nonvisual perception. The same applies to all other modalities of intentional experience: broad categories such as imagining, remembering, and thinking are identifiable as such in virtue of their characteristic contents.</p>
			<p class="Tx">If that is right, then there is nothing more to having an experience of type <i>x</i> than having an <i>x</i>-specific content, and there need be nothing more to the sense of having an experience of type <i>x</i> either. So it turns out that a <i>type of experience</i> and a <i>sense of having an experience of that type</i> are not after all distinguishable. Once we have dealt with the former, there is nothing more to be said. Confusion over which intentional state one is in could thus be attributed to an experiential content that is somehow ambiguous. In addition to or instead of this, it could involve a nonperceptual belief or judgment, in which case the sense of being in an intentional state would again collapse into something more familiar: an intentional state with another intentional state as its object. On such a view, this <i>sense</i> might be considered an occasional accompaniment to types of experiences that are more usually unproblematic, rather than something that is ubiquitous and essential to the sense of self.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Perhaps this is the reason why my question is seldom explicitly formulated. But, as I will show in the remainder of this book, it is not a good reason. The sense of being in one or another kind of intentional state is not merely a matter of characteristic phenomenal <i>content</i>. It is possible for an experiential content resembling that of intentional state <i>x</i> more so than that of intentional state <i>y</i> to be associated with a sense of being in intentional state <i>y</i>. Faced with this, one could abandon the transparency claim and propose that a separate <i>attitudinal</i> phenomenology is necessary and, when combined with content, sufficient for the sense of being in a given type of intentional state. However, the chapters that follow will show that this does not work either. The principal aspects of sense are not to be conceived of in terms of a distinction between attitude and content, and a discrete, <i>attitudinal</i> phenomenology has little or no role to play. Sense turns out to be multifaceted, and while experiential content does make a contribution, it can be overridden by other aspects of sense in cases of conflict. Hence perceptual and nonperceptual experiences are considerably more complicated than philosophers often take them to be. Coming to appreciate this is essential if we are to understanding certain forms of anomalous experience. In so doing, we also open the door to a much richer account of the phenomenological structure of intentionality.</p>
			<p class="Tx">How does all of this relate to minimal self? Minimal self is said to involve a sense of first-person perspective that is inseparable from being in an intentional state of one or another type. What is not made so clear is whether it further includes a sense of which type of intentional state one is in. However, it must. If our experience did not respect the distinction between perceiving and remembering, we would have no sense of temporal location. And, if we could not distinguish imagining from perceiving, experienced boundaries between self and environment would break down, to the extent that we would lack any sense of spatial location. My sense of perceiving <i>a</i>, <i>b</i>, and <i>c</i>, while imagining <i>d</i>, <i>e</i>, and <i>f</i>, constrains my potential actions. I cannot make the unseen sides of <i>a</i>, <i>b</i>, and <i>c</i> perceptually available without acting in specific ways, which I may or may not be capable of. This does not apply to <i>d</i>, <i>e</i>, and <i>f</i>. Without the distinction between perceiving and imagining, such constraints would be lacking. Everything would appear experientially and practically accessible in the same ways, thus amounting to a lack of self-location, of having a particular, contingent, changeable standpoint toward the world. Without some sense of spatiotemporal location, it is difficult to see how any experience of being a singular, coherent locus of experience could be sustained. Hence minimal-self experience has to discriminate between types of intentional state. This interpretation is consistent with how the concept is applied in the context of psychopathology. Consider the following:</p>
			<p class="E">Note that in a normal experience, e.g. in a perceptual act, the perceptual act is immediately and prereflectively aware of itself; it is an instance of ipseity. In other words, when I perceive or I think something, I do not become aware of the fact of my perceiving or thinking by some reflective/introspective examination of my current mental activity and comparing it with other possible modalities of intentionality (e.g. fantasizing). Any experience, any intentional act, is normally articulated as ipseity, i.e. it is automatically prereflectively aware of itself. The difficulties in this domain point to a profound disorder of ipseity. (Parnas et al. 2005, 242)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">This passage does not explicitly endorse the less minimal conception of minimal self. Nevertheless, it is stated that we do <i>not</i> take ourselves to perceive rather than fantasize by reflectively comparing two kinds of experience. Hence, although the subsequent claim that an intentional act is &#8220;prereflectively aware of itself&#8221; need not be interpreted as its being prereflectively aware of the type of intentional act that it is, the stronger interpretation is implied by preceding context. Further support for this interpretation is offered by the EASE, which addresses, among other things, an &#8220;inability to discriminate modalities of intentionality&#8221; that is indicative of anomalous self-experience (Parnas et al. 2005, 242). For Sass (2014a, 6), minimal self is likewise associated with the modal structure of intentionality: &#8220;Disturbances of spatiotemporal structuring of the world, and of such crucial experiential distinctions as perceived-vs-remembered-vs-imagined, are grounded in abnormalities of the embodied, vital, experiencing self.&#8221; His view, as I understand it, is not that disturbance of selfhood <i>causes</i> erosion of these distinctions, or that disturbances of selfhood imply other kinds of phenomenological disturbance but not vice versa. The relationship is instead one of mutual implication: minimal selfhood, the coherence of world experience, and a sense of relating to the world are all aspects of a unitary phenomenological structure, one that includes the modalities of intentionality.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This is not to suggest that there is no tension between my account and other conceptions of minimal self. In fact, Zahavi (2017) rejects my view that the modalities of intentionality are integral to minimal self and insists on a more primitive &#8220;what-it-is-like-for-me-ness.&#8221; But I do not see sufficient grounds for postulating a more primitive level of self, and the detailed account of the modal structure of intentionality developed in what follows is intended as an analysis of the same aspect of experience that he refers to. Furthermore, an emphasis on the modalities of intentionality facilitates a clearer, more detailed, and more specific account of self-disturbances in psychiatric illness. It is not simply a matter of perspectival disintegration, but of wide-ranging disturbances in the sense of intentional modalities as distinct from each other, something that can take a number of subtly different forms. As we will see, these disturbances can be described in detail. Appealing to an additional, separate disruption of what-it-is-like-for-me-ness lacks explanatory power: it seeks to explain something that has already been satisfactorily accounted for in terms of modal structure, by invoking something that does little to illuminate the relevant phenomena.</p>
			<div><a id="part3"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">2.3 </span>Other People</p>
			<p class="TxNI">A breakdown of the modal structure of intentionality would inevitably involve changes in the structure of interpersonal experience. If one could not distinguish self from nonself in the usual way, one could not, by implication, distinguish self from other either. More specific distinctions, such as that between one&#8217;s own thoughts or experiences and those of others, would be similarly affected. We could take the view that disruption of interpersonal experience is secondary: it is implied by the erosion of a more fundamental, pre-intersubjective sense of self. Even those who emphasize the interpersonal, relational phenomenology of psychiatric illness sometimes write as though this were so. For example, Fuchs (2015, 199) states that a &#8220;disturbance of the pre-reflective, embodied self must necessarily impair the patient&#8217;s social relationships.&#8221; He adds that self-disturbance can be exacerbated by subsequent social problems. Nevertheless, self-disturbance retains priority over relational disturbance, given that the former implies the latter but not vice versa. Proponents of the &#8220;minimal self&#8221; approach have also acknowledged that &#8220;hallucinations are expressive of a disturbance of the relation between the individual and her (interpersonal) world&#8221; (Lar&#248;i et al. 2010, 233). Again, however, this is compatible with the view that changes in interpersonal experience, and with them the onset of AVHs, are ultimately symptomatic of minimal-self disruption (Henriksen, Raballo, and Parnas 2015).</p>
			<p class="Tx">I propose instead that the integrity of intentionality, the sense of being in one kind of intentional state rather than another, depends on a certain <i>way</i> of experiencing and relating to other people, both developmentally and constitutively. Hence the most minimal or primitive sense of self possessed by a socialized, adult human is also an interpersonal self. It follows from this that certain events, of a kind that disrupt intersubjective development and/or interpersonal experience in adulthood, can also impact on the structure of intentionality and thus on the most basic sense of self.</p>
			<p class="Tx">This emphasis on the interpersonal helps to bridge an explanatory gap between global changes in the structure of experience and symptoms that are seemingly localized and episodic. Not all cases of schizophrenia involve AVHs, and estimates of their prevalence range from 50 percent to 80 percent (e.g., Hoffman and Rapaport 1994, 256; Delespaul, de Vries, and van Os 2002, 97). If schizophrenia without AVHs can also involve self-disorder, we need an explanation of why self-disorder only sometimes generates AVHs. Perhaps, one might suggest, AVHs occur only with a certain degree or kind of self-disorder, while the threshold for schizophrenia is lower or the diagnosis is broader in scope. However, what still needs explaining is why AVHs are usually experienced sporadically rather than constantly, and why their contents tend to be thematically consistent and often unpleasant in nature. The self-disorder approach offers at least a partial account of how AVHs arise, according to which thought and, more specifically, <i>inner speech</i> becomes conspicuous, object-like, and thus more akin to certain contents of perceptual experience: &#8220;Inner speech becomes transformed from a <i>medium of thinking</i> into an object-like entity with quasi-perceptual characteristics&#8221; (Parnas and Sass 2001, 107). However, the story is importantly incomplete. It is not at all clear how to account for the content-specificity of AVHs in terms of nonspecific changes in the structure of experience and thought.<sup><span id="n2-10"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-10">10</a></span></sup> It can be added that AVHs with unpleasant contents are diagnostically nonspecific. They are associated with several categories of psychiatric disorder, and seemingly similar phenomena are also reported in the nonclinical population (e.g., Watkins 2008; Johns et al. 2014). If AVHs in some or all of these contexts turn out to be phenomenologically indistinguishable from those associated with schizophrenia, then either (a) self-disorder of the relevant kind is not specific to schizophrenia or (b) self-disorder is not necessary for AVHs, even if it turns out to be sufficient for them.</p>
			<p class="Tx">To begin addressing the content-specificity problem, let us consider a very different approach to AVHs, one that places much more emphasis on their content and also on their interpersonal context. The approach in question was pioneered by Marius Romme and Sandra Escher (e.g., Romme et al. 2009; Romme and Escher 2012). It is credited with giving rise to the Hearing Voices Movement, and has been adopted by organizations including Intervoice and the Hearing Voices Network.<sup><span id="n2-11"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-11">11</a></span></sup> As the term &#8220;movement&#8221; suggests, it would be wrong to think of this merely as a theory or a looser set of empirical claims. There is also a salient normative dimension to it; the movement is principally concerned with how those who hear voices <i>should</i> be regarded and treated, by the medical profession and more generally. It aims to combat social injustice, empower people, and challenge prevalent attitudes in psychiatry and elsewhere. However, the stance that it adopts also includes a number of descriptive claims concerning the nature of what others refer to as &#8220;AVHs,&#8221; and it is these that I focus on here.<sup><span id="n2-12"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-12">12</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">According to Romme and Escher, anomalous experiences such as <i>voices</i> with distressing contents owe much to the voice-hearer&#8217;s current and historical relations with other people. Childhood trauma, neglect, and abuse are frequently implicated, as are social anxiety and social isolation in adulthood. Voices are not meaningless symptoms of illness but meaningful phenomena to be interpreted in the light of past events. A voice might express past events metaphorically; what it &#8220;says&#8221; might be similar or identical to remembered utterances; and it might even be recognized as the voice of an abuser. In addition, the emotional content of a voice-hearing experience and the person&#8217;s emotional reaction to that experience both mirror past and/or current relationships with specific individuals or people in general.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The content of the experience is central to this approach, as are interpersonal relationships and the emotional dynamics they involve. Given that voices somehow reflect interpersonally induced emotional distress, there is an emphasis on trying to make sense of what they say and on helping the person come to terms with historical events. The intention is not so much to get rid of the voices as to change how the voice-hearer relates to them and to the social world, to help her take back control.<sup><span id="n2-13"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-13">13</a></span></sup> For instance, an approach called Voice Dialogue involves addressing the voice rather than the person who hears it, with the aim of altering how the person understands and relates to her voice, such that it may eventually become benign or supportive (e.g., Corstens, Longden, and May 2012).<sup><span id="n2-14"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-14">14</a></span></sup> An associated theme is that psychiatric diagnoses and treatments can themselves be disempowering, exacerbating a person&#8217;s sense of helplessness in the face of a hostile social world. A voice-hearing experience does not have to be distressing and is not intrinsically pathological. To label voices per se as symptoms of illness is to stigmatize and alienate people, as well as increase the distress caused by their voices (Romme et al. 2009).</p>
			<p class="Tx">The hearing voices literature consistently emphasizes the extent to which voices are socially embedded: &#8220;Hearing voices must not be seen as an isolated, individual experience. There is always an interaction between voice hearer and society, voice hearer and family, voice hearer and mental health professional&#8221; (Romme et al. 2009, 4). The relationship between traumatic events involving other people and the onset of voices is not made fully clear. However, emotional disturbance is said to play a central role. For instance, it is suggested that those who have suffered childhood trauma in the form of neglect are less able to regulate emotions and are consequently more prone to stress, which can somehow trigger voice-hearing (Romme et al. 2009, 41). More generally, it is proposed that what disposes a person toward having these experiences is emotional and relational in nature:</p>
			<p class="E">It is very important to explore the links between the voices, the trauma and the involved emotions that lie at the roots of the voice-hearing experience. To learn to cope with these emotions is more relevant for the recovery process than learning to cope with the voices alone. To get more control over the voices, however, opens the gateway to getting at the social-emotional problems that are at the roots. Voices serve as a defence mechanism avoiding confrontation with the problems and the emotions involved. (Romme et al. 2009, 47)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">As this passage suggests, the approach maintains that the relationship between traumatic experience and voices is not always transparent to the voice-hearer. Distressing voices often involve a form of dissociation, whereby the person detaches himself from painful emotions, which then manifest themselves as alien voices. So he may lack an explicit, reflective appreciation of the causes of his voices, as well as their relationship to painful life events. The task is to make sense of them with him, to grasp their emotional meanings and their relationships to his life-history. Hence &#8220;psychosis&#8221; is to be reconceived of as an &#8220;emotional crisis&#8221; (Romme and Escher 2012).<sup><span id="n2-15"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-15">15</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">One concern I have about this approach is its lack of clarity concerning the implications for diagnostic categories and, more specifically, the schizophrenia construct. It is not clear whether the position is that (a) the diagnosis &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; has been overextended or (b) the diagnostic category &#8220;schizophrenia&#8221; is misguided and should be abandoned altogether. For instance, Longden, Madill, and Waterman (2012) argue that phenomena such as AVHs should be construed as dissociative rather than psychotic, and cite numerous studies pointing to a link with trauma, especially childhood trauma. Voices, they say, are &#8220;dissociated or disowned components of the self (or self-other relationships) that result from trauma, loss, or other interpersonal stressors&#8221; (2012, 28). So it would seem that the issue concerns whether something should be categorized as psychosis (and, more specifically, schizophrenia) or as dissociation. But, at the same time, they question the legitimacy of a distinction between the two, in suggesting that &#8220;trauma-induced dissociation&#8221; and &#8220;psychosis&#8221; are different ways of interpreting a common phenomenon, the latter inappropriately. Lack of clarity over the status of diagnostic categories is accompanied by a lack of clarity over the nature of &#8220;voices.&#8221; It could be that we are dealing with a singular, unitary phenomenon. Alternatively, &#8220;voices&#8221; might encompass a range of importantly different phenomena, embedded in different phenomenological and interpersonal contexts. Consequently, the scope of the hearing voices approach is also unclear.</p>
			<p class="Tx">What is clear, however, is that there are tensions between the stance of the Hearing Voices Movement and the minimal-self account of schizophrenia and AVHs. The latter is much more accepting of the schizophrenia construct and places far less emphasis on the interpersonal. There is also a tension between an emphasis on <i>dissociative</i> emotional disturbances and the claim that disruptions of minimal selfhood fuel <i>psychotic</i> phenomena. Nevertheless, I think the two positions can be integrated, to a considerable degree, through the acknowledgment that minimal self is developmentally and constitutively dependent on a way of relating to other people. For now, I seek only to set out the position. I will defend it in later chapters.</p>
			<p class="Tx">It might seem that there is an obvious objection to the view that minimal self somehow depends on relations with other people: if the modalities of intentionality arise during social development, young infants and all nonsocial organisms are implausibly denied the status of &#8220;minimal self.&#8221; Infants may well be born with various rudimentary intersubjective abilities, but, to the extent that the structure of intentionality is contingent on social-developmental processes, that structure is lacking at the outset. However, what I am suggesting does not entail such a position. One alternative would be to maintain that infants are born with the capacity for intentional states of type <i>x</i> and <i>y</i>, and that, as they develop, they come to distinguish other types of intentional state as well. So a richer sense of minimal self is formed, and disturbances of intersubjectivity involve regression to something more primitive. There is the worry, though, that this would descend into a purely verbal dispute over whether minimal self should be taken to involve the capacity to experience <i>x</i> as distinct from <i>y</i>, or whether it should, in some instances at least, include further discriminative capacities. In any case, such an approach would be wrongheaded. Self-development should instead be conceived of as a transformative process. Suppose infants are born with a capacity for intentional states of type <i>y</i>, which do not correspond exactly to <i>any</i> of the types of experience that typical adults discriminate between. It is not that one first experiences <i>y</i> and later comes to experience <i>z</i> as well; <i>y</i> is a developmental precursor to a modal structure that does not retain <i>y</i> in unadulterated form. Furthermore, the development of <i>y</i> into <i>z</i> does not revert back to <i>y</i> when it goes awry; one is left with neither.</p>
			<p class="Tx">More generally, development does not have a rewind button. Instead, capacities that enter into developmental processes become hostages to fortune; there is no going back. All sorts of mundane examples serve to illustrate the point: starved of light from birth, one is not left with the capacities of infant eyes; deprived of the opportunity to walk, one is not left with the musculature of infant legs. In the case of minimal self, it is equally coherent to suppose that infants possess a minimal self of type A, a capacity for certain types of distinguishable and coherently integrated intentional experience, but that adults possess a minimal self of type B, involving a repertoire of intentional states that is qualitatively different from A. When development is derailed, the resulting lack of phenomenological coherence is quite unlike both the typical infant case and the typical adult case. So there is a need to distinguish <i>possible</i> kinds of minimal-self experience from the <i>actual</i> kind(s) found in adult humans. Even if it is accepted that selfhood is possible in the absence of interpersonal relations, there are no grounds for insisting that this same kind of selfhood is preserved in unadulterated form throughout social development, as an underlying core. I admit that nonsocial and presocial forms of minimal self are at least conceivable and may well be actual. However, the distinctive modal structure of human experience is the outcome of a social developmental process. Once that process begins, there is no going back, and the sense of self that unfolds is susceptible to kinds of disruption that could not arise in the asocial case. Furthermore, even in adulthood, the integrity of intentionality continues to depend on a certain distinctive way of relating to the social world, one that is vulnerable to disruption.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Although studies of child development have not explicitly addressed the modal structure of intentional experience, many authors emphasize how interpersonal interaction is not simply an outcome of cognitive developmental processes but something integral to them. Relations with other people, principally caregivers, shape developmental outcomes. As Hobson (2002, 75) puts it, &#8220;being affected by others is a design feature of human beings&#8212;a design feature that transforms what a human being is.&#8221; He describes, in detail, how parent&#8211;child interactions involve affective, dialogical processes of growing sophistication, and maintains that it is out of relatedness that &#8220;children develop what are called &#8216;perceptual,&#8217; &#8216;cognitive,&#8217; &#8216;conative,&#8217; and &#8216;affective&#8217; psychological functions&#8221; (1993, 105). Hobson (2002, xiv) goes so far as to state that the eventual capacity to <i>think</i> depends on certain ways of relating to and interacting with other people during development. Patterned affective interaction is thus integral to the developmental process. It serves as a kind of scaffolding for development, enabling the formation of species-typical capacities that could not arise in its absence.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Various others have made complementary claims. For instance, Trevarthen (e.g., 1993) maintains that the interpersonal self is developmentally prior to thought, and that the capacity to think is founded on forms of affective communication. Stern (e.g., 1993) similarly proposes that the ability to elicit, share, and regulate each other&#8217;s feelings has an important role to play in cognitive development. While these accounts do not explicitly set out a position concerning the structure of intentionality and its development, they are compatible with what I am proposing. Tronick et al. (1998) come closer to endorsing such a position, in suggesting that interaction with a caregiver during childhood, or with a therapist during adulthood, can serve to &#8220;expand&#8221; consciousness into &#8220;more coherent and complex states&#8221; (290). Others state that the most basic sense of self, even consciousness itself, is dependent on interpersonal relations. Zeedyk (2006, 326) makes the strong claim that capacities including &#8220;self-awareness, representation, language, and even consciousness&#8221; originate in distinctive kinds of relation with caregivers, involving what she calls &#8220;emotional intimacy.&#8221; Reddy (2008, 27) likewise suggests that certain kinds of second-person engagement or &#8220;I-you&#8221; relation are partly constitutive of the development of mind.<sup><span id="n2-16"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-16">16</a></span></sup> Such claims are plausibly construed as encompassing, among other things, the changing modal structure of intentionality. That structure depends on interpersonal processes for its development and is therefore rendered vulnerable to them. What we have is an interpersonally regulated, self-transformative process. There are no grounds for insisting on a core self that remains insulated from the process as other capacities are laid down on top of it. The view that minimal self is developmentally, and later constitutively, bound up with interpersonal experience does not imply that minimal-self disturbance sometimes or always has social causes. Disruption of the modal structure of intentionality, and with it the capacity for interpersonal experience and relatedness, could have any number of different causes. Nevertheless, in chapters 4, 5, and 6, I will suggest that the emphasis placed by the Hearing Voices Movement on interpersonal trauma is plausible in many cases (although we should be careful not to overgeneralize).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Is this <i>interpersonal minimal self</i> still a <i>minimal self</i>? For my purposes, it does not really matter whether the term &#8220;minimal self&#8221; is ultimately retained. My position is that, if we do want to talk in terms of a basic sense of selfhood of a kind that is altered in severe psychiatric illness, then we should be talking about what I address here. In the case of a socialized human being, there is nothing more primitive to be found, no underlying presocial self. There is nothing <i>beneath</i> or <i>before</i> the modal structure of intentionality, a structure that is inextricable from a way of being immersed in the interpersonal world and consequently vulnerable to certain kinds of disruption.</p>
			<div><a id="part4"/></div>
			<p class="H1"><span class="label">2.4 </span>The Appearance of Hallucination</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The approach sketched in this chapter parts company with most philosophical discussions of hallucination. A hallucination is generally taken to be a perceptual experience that is much like or identical to perceiving <i>p</i>, but had in the absence of <i>p</i>. No distinction is drawn between the having of an experience and the sense of having it. However, there is at least some affinity between what I have said so far and the conception of hallucination associated with a type of &#8220;disjunctive&#8221; theory of perception. There is also common ground between the position I seek to develop and a philosophical account of &#8220;real hallucinations&#8221; that takes them to be &#8220;mistaken imaginings&#8221; rather than nonveridical perceptual experiences. To conclude the chapter, I will further clarify my position by comparing and contrasting it with both.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The disjunctive theory of perception, or the version of it that I have in mind, involves a commitment to <i>naive realism</i>. Central to this is a <i>strong transparency claim</i>. A weak transparency claim would be that the content of perceptual experience <i>seems</i> to consist of features of our surrounding environment that perception reveals to us. The strong transparency claim takes this at face value; the properties we experience are not constituents of an experience but exactly what they seem to be: properties of entities in our environment. When I look at a tree, my experience somehow incorporates the tree&#8217;s actual properties, rather than an experiential content that could equally arise in the absence of sensory contact with the actual tree (e.g., Martin 2002, 2004). So I could not have an experience with those same properties in isolation from the tree. It follows from this that a <i>hallucination</i> of the tree, whatever it might consist of, cannot be phenomenologically indistinguishable from a veridical experience of the tree. If this is correct, then hallucinations turn out to be doubly deceptive. We take ourselves to be having an experience of <i>p</i>, in a case where <i>p</i> is absent and where the experience does not in fact resemble an experience of <i>p</i>:</p>
			<p class="E">As paradoxical as it may sound, the explanation of how illusions or hallucinations can fix beliefs requires that we think of such situations as not only being misleading as to how the subject&#8217;s environment is, but also as being misleading about themselves. (Martin 2002, 401)</p>
			<p class="TxNI">The theory has little or nothing to say about what hallucinations <i>do</i> consist of. It offers only a negative characterization, according to which they involve the absence of experience, but in a way that somehow eludes first-person detection. So a &#8220;perfect hallucination&#8221; is not a perfect replica of a veridical experience. Instead, it involves a complete inability to detect the difference via &#8220;reflection alone&#8221; (Martin 2004, 76).<sup><span id="n2-17"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-17">17</a></span></sup> If the strong transparency claim is accepted, this must apply to both hypothetical and real hallucinations. If the properties of perceptual experience are identical to the properties of perceived objects, then hallucinations cannot incorporate those properties. But this is compatible with maintaining that it seems to us as though they do. As Martin (2002, 421) remarks, &#8220;it can hardly be denied that it is possible for one to have an illusion or hallucination which is indistinguishable for one from a veridical perception.&#8221;<sup><span id="n2-18"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-18">18</a></span></sup> To put it in my terms, what we have here is a wholly intact sense of perceiving, but in the absence of any perceptual experience.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Martin is right to distinguish taking oneself to undergo a given type of experience from actually undergoing it, and to acknowledge the possibility that hallucinations involve the former rather than the latter. However, insistence on a wholly negative account of hallucination (as an absence of something, combined with lack of reflective insight into this absence) is unhelpful. In cases of real hallucination, as I will show, the sense of being in an intentional state cannot be cleanly extricated from a wider experience that is characteristic of being in that state. Furthermore, the various aspects of this <i>sense</i> can be described in considerable detail, as can other aspects of perceptual and nonperceptual experience. So, in the case of perception, there are no grounds for maintaining that the relevant phenomenology is exhausted by properties of the environment (even if one is willing to grant that perceptual experience somehow incorporates such properties). Furthermore, in cases of real hallucination, it would be wrong to say that there is an absence of perceptual experience, coupled with a lack of insight. There is often an experience of strangeness, ambiguity, and tension. The person&#8217;s sense that she is having a type-<span class="I">x</span> experience is lacking in one or another respect, and she may be well aware that there is a conflict between a predominantly type-<span class="I">x</span> sense and other aspects of the experience that are indicative of a type-<span class="I">y</span> rather than type-<span class="I">x</span> intentional state. Of course, Martin could respond that he is concerned with philosophers&#8217; hallucinations, which are merely possible, rather than with actual forms of experience. However, if certain real hallucinations involve taking oneself to have a perceptual experience when one does not, and we have a detailed analysis of what the relevant <i>sense of having a perceptual experience</i> consists of, it is not clear why this account should be withheld for cleaner, hypothetical cases that are similarly said to involve taking oneself to have a perceptual experience when one does not. The alternative would be to adopt a rather peculiar position, where we know what the sense of perceiving actually consists of, but we disregard it and postulate a different, hypothetical sense of perceiving, which we refuse to say anything more about. Given the approach to be developed here, the door is left open for the disjunctivist to argue that at least some properties of perceptual experience are specific to the veridical case and consistent with the strong transparency claim. However, that is not my project. Instead, I am concerned with something that the disjunctivist only touches on, in raising the possibility of taking oneself to have a perception-like experience when one does not: the wider-ranging modal structure of intentionality.</p>
			<p class="Tx">An emphasis on the modalities of intentionality also complements, in certain respects, the suggestion that some hallucinations and delusions are misplaced imaginings rather than perceptions or beliefs (Currie 2000; Currie and Jureidini 2001; Currie and Ravenscroft 2002).<sup><span id="n2-19"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-19">19</a></span></sup> One motivation for this view is that much of what seems odd about delusional &#8220;belief&#8221; is quite mundane in the context of our imaginings. So delusions would be a lot less puzzling if they turned out to be imaginings rather than beliefs: &#8220;Much of what exemplifies the strange and disordered thought of people with schizophrenia would not be remarkable if it were treated by the subject as belonging to the flow of her own imaginings&#8221; (Currie 2000, 173). For instance, imaginings are insulated from requirements such as consistency with a person&#8217;s various beliefs. The view that delusions are imaginings is thus complemented by the observation that delusions are recalcitrant to revision in the light of glaring inconsistencies. Hallucinations, it is suggested, can be explained in the same way, but in terms of a confusion between imagination and perception, rather than imagination and belief. So what we have in both cases is a disorder of &#8220;attitude identification,&#8221; where a person takes himself to be in intentional state <i>x</i>, when he is actually in intentional state <i>y</i> (Currie 2000, 173). This approach allies itself with a self-monitoring account of the relevant experiences, according to which they arise owing to the breakdown of mechanisms that more usually serve to identify them as self-generated (e.g., Frith 1992). There is a failure to monitor imaginings that arise in response to perceptual experiences. These are then experienced as non-self-generated or not &#8220;willed by us&#8221; (Currie 2000, 179). Depending on the kind of imagining involved and whether or not it includes sensory qualities, it is mistaken either for a perception (as in the case of an AVH) or for a belief (as in the case of delusion).</p>
			<p class="Tx">Imagining that <i>p</i> while taking oneself to either believe that <i>p</i> or perceive that <i>p</i> could be construed in terms of being in intentional state <i>x</i>, while having the sense that one is in intentional state <i>y</i>. In this respect, the account I will develop here complements a mistaken imaginings approach. However, there are also some important differences. First of all, there is a difference in emphasis: my approach is principally phenomenological, while that of Currie and his coauthors is not. Second, while they account for delusions and hallucinations in epistemological terms (a person is in one type of intentional state but mistakes it for another), I maintain that things are seldom, if ever, so tidy. A partial sense that one is in intentional state <i>x</i>, accompanied by an experiential content resembling that of <i>y</i> more so than <i>x</i>, is experienced <i>as</i> strange, ambiguous, or indeterminate. What we have is not simply one intentional state that is mistaken for another but an unfamiliar kind of intentionality, something that is experienced as somehow different from both. One thus faces the task of conveying to others a type of experience that does not fit into familiar categories. It is plausibly the interpreter, more so than the patient, who is responsible for mistaking an unusual experience for a simple perception or belief. Sarbin (1967), for instance, suggests that clinicians are often too hasty in taking what are actually reported imaginings to be phenomenologically indistinguishable from everyday perceptions or beliefs. As we will see in chapter 3, first-person reports tend to be more hesitant and equivocal.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Another point of departure is that I seek to account for various seemingly localized phenomena in terms of more general disturbances in the modal structure of experience and to describe what that structure consists of. It is not just a matter of misidentifying some of one&#8217;s imaginings as perceptions and/or beliefs. There is more to it than that: shifts in the modal structure of intentionality also alter the repertoire of intentional state types that one is capable of. One is more prone to a blurring of the boundaries between belief/perception and imagination because none of one&#8217;s &#8220;beliefs,&#8221; &#8220;perceptions,&#8221; or &#8220;imaginings&#8221; involve quite the same kind of intentionality that they previously did.</p>
			<p class="Tx">Nevertheless, it should be acknowledged that the mistaken imaginings account proposed by Currie and colleagues is not exclusively epistemological. They also recognize that the subject may have an &#8220;ambiguous relationship with the thought content,&#8221; such that it can play a psychological role somewhere in between that of a belief and an imagining (Currie 2000, 174). Furthermore, believing that you believe something can eventually lead you to believe it. So there is the possibility of a transition from mistaken imaginings to full-blown beliefs. Elsewhere, Currie and Jureidini (2004, 423) explicitly reject a categorical distinction between imagination and belief. They conceive of imagination and belief as a space, with two main clusters and various outliers. The criteria that determine whether a psychological state is closer to one or the other cluster include &#8220;truth-tracking, coherence with other elements of the system, potential to motivate, emotional power, subjection to the will, and &#8230; narrative valence: the capacity to play a role in a more or less elaborate and engaging narrative.&#8221; There is, they state, &#8220;little use left for a sharp belief/imagination distinction.&#8221; Egan (2009) also proposes a blurring of the boundaries between imagination and belief. He distinguishes types of intentional state in terms of their functional roles. For instance, beliefs have a characteristic relationship to evidence, to other kinds of intentional state, and to behavior. On that basis, he argues that delusions cannot be classified as &#8220;straightforward, paradigmatic cases&#8221; of belief or imagination (2009, 268). They are insulated from evidence to an extent that beliefs are usually not, but they are not as insulated as imaginings, and the same applies to their relationship with behavior. Egan thus introduces the term &#8220;bimagination&#8221; to refer to an intermediate form of intentionality that resembles belief in some respects and imagination in others.</p>
			<p class="Tx">The claim that there is no categorical distinction between belief and imagination is consistent with my own position. But again the emphasis is different, given that I want to focus on the phenomenology. Furthermore, the postulation of states that lie somewhere in between belief and imagination risks losing a distinction that an epistemological approach continues to recognize, between the intentional state one takes oneself to be in and the intentional state one is actually in. That a person has an intentional state with features of <i>y</i> and <i>z</i> does not tell us anything about what the more specific sense of being in an intentional state of type <i>y</i> or <i>z</i> consists of. Hence, in appealing merely to a blurring between intentional state types, there is the risk of missing something important: the tensions that can arise between a sense of one&#8217;s intentional state and other aspects of experience. With this, we also lose sight of the role played by the wider modal structure of experience, a more enveloping sense of the various kinds of intentional state as distinct from one another.<sup><span id="n2-20"><a href="10594_333.xhtml#f2-20">20</a></span></sup></p>
			<p class="Tx">So, in summary, there are distinctions to be drawn between (a) epistemic and constitutive formulations of the view that delusions and hallucinations can involve confusing different kinds of intentional state; (b) phenomenological and nonphenomenological formulations of both kinds of view; and (c) accounts that emphasize circumscribed, episodic confusions between intentional states types, and a wider-ranging approach that also seeks to understand these phenomena in terms of changes in the overall structure of intentionality. The remainder of this book develops a phenomenological, constitutive, and wide-ranging approach toward anomalous experiences, and toward the structure of intentionality more generally.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
