<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" prefix="schema: http://schema.org/ rdf: http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns# xsd: http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema# sa: http://ns.science.ai# scienceai: https://science.ai/ pur: http://prismstandard.org/namespaces/pur/3.0/">
   <head xmlns:yaeger="http://www.atypon.com/yaeger">
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <title property="http:/schema.org/name" lang="en" xml:lang="en">Vaccines, Pesticides, and Narratives of Exposure and Evidence</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/index.css" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/utoronto.css" />
      <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
   </head>
   <body xmlns:yaeger="http://www.atypon.com/yaeger">
      <meta property="schema:accessibilityAPI" content="ARIA" />
      <meta property="schema:accessibilityFeature" content="MathML" />
      <meta property="schema:accessibilityFeature" content="alternativeText" />
      <meta property="schema:accessibilityFeature" content="readingOrder" />
      <article vocab="http://schema.org/" resource="scienceai:article" typeof="schema:ScholarlyArticle">
         <section property="sa:articleFrontMatter" datatype="rdf:HTML">
            <header>
               <div class="citation" role="contentinfo">
                  <div class="logo"></div><span property="schema:isPartOf" typeof="schema:PublicationIssue"><span typeof="schema:Periodical"><span property="schema:name">Canadian Bulletin of Medical History</span><br />Volume <span property="schema:isPartOf" typeof="schema:PublicationVolume"><span property="schema:volumeNumber">34</span></span>, Issue <span property="schema:issueNumber">2</span></span></span>, <span property="schema:datePublished">Fall 2017</span>, Pages <span property="schema:pageStart">297</span>-<span property="schema:pageEnd">326</span><br /><a property="schema:sameAs" href="https://doi.org/10.3138/cbmh.190-21122016">https://doi.org/10.3138/cbmh.190-21122016</a><br /><span property="pur:copyright">© Canadian Society for the History of Medicine / Société canadienne d'histoire de
                     la médecine</span></div>
               <div class="article-type" role="contentinfo">AMS Paterson Lecture–Conférence AMS Paterson 2016</div>
               <h1 property="schema:name" epub:type="title">Vaccines, Pesticides, and Narratives of Exposure and Evidence</h1>
               <ul class="authors">
                  <li property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Elena</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Conis</span></li>
               </ul>
               <ul class="affiliations">
                  <li><span property="schema:name">Graduate School of Journalism, University of California, Berkeley</span></li>
               </ul>
            </header>
            <section id="abstract" epub:type="abstract" property="schema:detailedDescription" typeof="sa:Abstract">
               <h2 property="schema:name">Abstract</h2>
               <p property="schema:text">This essay considers the cultural work performed by two public health narratives —
                  the DDT narrative and the vaccine narrative — as they appeared in popular and professional
                  discourse concerning two recent media events: controversy over an antivaccination
                  film, and the emergence of a Zika global public health emergency. Like all narratives
                  in the history of medicine, the stories historians and others tell about DDT and about
                  vaccines organize a shared past to explain the present. They also point to a hoped-for
                  future. The DDT and vaccine narratives share several themes: public health, expertise,
                  evidence, exposure, and power. Their inclusions and exclusions, however, convey distinct
                  messages about these themes, particularly regarding the right conduct of health citizens
                  in the pursuit of public health. These narratives are analyzed to compare their agendas,
                  and to propose a case study of how historical work can shed light on contemporary
                  public health norms, practice, and challenges.
               </p>
               <section lang="fr">
                  <h3>Résumé</h3>
                  <p>Cet essai examine le travail culturel effectué par deux récits de santé publique —
                     le récit du DDT et le récit du vaccin — tels qu'ils apparaissent dans le discours
                     populaire et professionnel concernant deux événements médiatiques récents: la controverse
                     sur un film anti-vaccination et l'émergence du Zika comme une urgence de santé publique
                     mondiale. Comme tous les récits en histoire de la médecine, les histoires racontées
                     par les historiens et d'autres intervenants au sujet du DDT et des vaccins organisent
                     un passé partagé pour expliquer le présent et indiquer une direction pour l'avenir.
                     Le DDT et les récits sur les vaccins partagent plusieurs thèmes: la santé publique,
                     l'expertise, la preuve, l'exposition et le pouvoir. Leurs inclusions et exclusions
                     véhiculent cependant des messages assez distincts sur ces thèmes et, par conséquent,
                     sur la bonne conduite et la participation citoyenne favorisant la santé publique.
                     Ces récits sont analysés afin de comparer leurs agendas et de proposer une étude de
                     cas sur la façon dont le travail historique peut éclairer les normes, la pratique
                     et les défis actuels de la santé publique.
                  </p>
               </section>
            </section>
            <section id="keywords" epub:type="keywords">
               <h2>Keywords</h2>
               <ul>
                  <li>DDT</li>
                  <li>exposure</li>
                  <li>vaccines and antivaccination movements</li>
                  <li>Zika outbreaks</li>
                  <li>global health</li>
                  <li>public health and citizenship</li>
                  <li>health journalism</li>
                  <li>public health narratives and historiography</li>
               </ul>
               <section lang="fr">
                  <h3>Mots-clés</h3>
                  <ul>
                     <li>exposition</li>
                     <li>DDT</li>
                     <li>vaccins et mouvements anti-vaccination</li>
                     <li>éclosions de Zika</li>
                     <li>santé mondiale</li>
                     <li>santé publique et citoyenneté</li>
                     <li>journalisme sur la santé</li>
                     <li>récit et historiographie sur la santé publique</li>
                  </ul>
               </section>
            </section>
            <section id="author-notes">
               <ul>
                  <li><span>Originally submitted 22 November 2016; accepted 9 January 2017.</span></li>
               </ul>
            </section>
         </section>
         <section property="schema:articleBody" datatype="rdf:HTML">
            <section id="introduction">
               <h2>Introduction</h2>
               <p>Two seemingly unrelated news stories took wing in 2016. One concerned the Zika virus
                  and its spread across the Americas. The other concerned the film <em>Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe</em> and its spread across the United States. Each of these stories featured a “character”
                  – DDT in the Zika story, vaccines in the <em>Vaxxed</em> story – familiar to those who have followed the West's recent public health debates.
                  Vaccines and DDT are central to Western (and particularly American) public health's
                  sense of identity as a profession, as they stand at the centre of stories, or narratives,
                  about modern public health's capacity to vanquish disease and protect human life to
                  an unprecedented extent – but not uncontroversially so. According to what might be
                  called the grand narratives about vaccines and DDT, vaccines are powerfully lifesaving,
                  but certain people avoid them for (usually) anti-scientific reasons; DDT was once
                  an intensely popular chemical, integral to modern advances in public health and agriculture,
                  but was abandoned in the West following the advent of new environmentalism. Neither
                  of these narratives is fixed; nor is either one capable of containing the numerous
                  sub-narratives about vaccines and DDT specific to particular times and spaces. The
                  narratives that circulated in 2016 – which are the main subject of this essay – concern
                  modern explanations as to why vaccines and DDT are not more widely used. The vaccine
                  narrative maintains that vaccine-hesitant individuals have misguidedly followed a
                  vaccination detractor, the director of <em>Vaxxed</em>, who produced illegitimate evidence about the risks of vaccines. The DDT narrative
                  maintains that the balance of evidence on the pesticide's risks indicates that its
                  use to protect human health ought to be highly constrained – even in the face of a
                  threat such as Zika.
               </p>
               <p>Both narratives thus ostensibly communicate the need to balance risks and benefits
                  in the pursuit of public health. But they also concern whether chemical exposures
                  matter in the pursuit of public health, when evidence is actionable in pursuit of
                  the same, and who has the power to decide. The narratives' respective structures,
                  moreover, convey fairly distinct messages about the themes of exposure, evidence,
                  and expertise. The moral of the DDT story is to worry about still-contested exposures,
                  question scientific evidence, and listen to renegade scientific voices; the moral
                  of the vaccine narrative is that chemical exposures matter less than infectious threats,
                  that scientific evidence need not be questioned, and that scientific consensus is
                  more dependable than individual scientists with unorthodox views. In the vaccine narrative,
                  scientific experts can be trusted because they don't make mistakes (and are sanctioned
                  when they do); in the DDT narrative, scientific experts can be trusted because they
                  learn from their past mistakes (and are magnanimous enough to admit when they do).
                  News stories about Zika and <em>Vaxxed</em> provided occasion for particular forms of these two narratives to circulate in the
                  same historical moment in 2016.<sup><a href="#NT1" epub:type="noteref">1</a></sup> The narratives did not interact with each other directly, but their occupation of
                  the same discursive space provides an opportunity to juxtapose the public health morals
                  and values embedded in each one and to consider the implications of their contradictions.
               </p>
               <p>These cultural narratives are evident throughout media coverage of the issues of vaccination
                  and prevention of insect-borne disease, but this essay is not a media critique. I
                  accept the idea from literary theory that narratives are works distinguished by the
                  presence of story and storytellers, but I do not assume that journalists are the sole
                  authors of these narratives.<sup><a href="#NT2" epub:type="noteref">2</a></sup> Instead, I adopt the idea put forth by Charles Briggs and Daniel Hallin, in their
                  work on bio-mediatization, that health knowledge is co-produced by an array of actors:
                  reporters, medical and public health professionals, historians, other academics, representatives
                  of industry and government, political and other public figures, and the public itself.<sup><a href="#NT3" epub:type="noteref">3</a></sup> The vaccine and DDT narratives are evident in media coverage – but also in scientific
                  journals, grand rounds, popular and scholarly books, textbooks, films, and more. What
                  unifies these narratives is not their presence in the news media but, rather, their
                  widespread circulation in narrative form – the fact that they are, to borrow an articulation
                  from Jouni-Matti Kuukkanen, cognitive structures that connect statements and other
                  material evidence in a logic intended to interpret and make meaning of the past.<sup><a href="#NT4" epub:type="noteref">4</a></sup></p>
               <p>The idea that narrative co-producers select evidence from a messy past and organize
                  it into a structure that gives meaning to that past is, admittedly, a contested view
                  of narrative.<sup><a href="#NT5" epub:type="noteref">5</a></sup> My aim in this essay is not to weigh in on narrative theory but to draw upon the
                  philosophy of history that has engaged with narrative to consider how public health
                  narratives, which are at least in part both products and objects of historical inquiry,
                  may work at cross purposes in a manner that undermines public health goals encoded
                  in state statutes and regulations. I have chosen to consider these structures narratives
                  – as opposed to myths, or framed presentations of ideas – because they are teleological.
                  Narrative structure assigns a beginning, a middle, and an end to past events; in scientific
                  narratives, these time points give events, episodes, and individuals specific significance.
                  Beginnings may assign priority and power by, for example, attributing credit for discoveries,
                  theories, or approaches; endings can signal consensus about the state of the relevant
                  evidence and its acceptance or rejection by a scientific majority or elite. In the
                  vaccine and DDT narratives described below in greater detail, for example, vaccine
                  and DDT doubts begin with single individuals and end when scientific evidence is accepted
                  as validating or invalidating those doubts.
               </p>
               <p>But this, of course, is only part of the story of vaccines and DDT. As historian William
                  Cronon writes, narratives are constructed with “a rhetorical razor that defines included
                  and excluded, relevant and irrelevant, empowered and disempowered”;<sup><a href="#NT6" epub:type="noteref">6</a></sup> narratives, he adds, “cannot avoid a covert exercise of power,” because they sanction
                  certain voices and views while silencing others.<sup><a href="#NT7" epub:type="noteref">7</a></sup> The vaccine and DDT narratives are as noteworthy for the past episodes and voices
                  they include as for those they exclude. And if narratives exert power by sanctioning
                  some voices and silencing others, they give shape to and uphold hegemonic identities
                  in the same way. Both narratives work to buttress an identity based on modern, middle-class,
                  scientific values; poverty, for example, is missing from the vaccine narrative, occupational
                  health from the DDT narrative, and religious and philosophical beliefs from both.
                  This essay sets contemporaneous versions of these narratives not just in juxtaposition
                  but in historical context, with attention to their inclusions and exclusions, to show
                  how their content and structure provide clues to their respective messages, agendas,
                  and power.
               </p>
            </section>
            <section id="the-vaccine-narrative">
               <h2>The Vaccine Narrative</h2>
               <p>A familiar cultural narrative concerning vaccines posits that the widespread vaccination
                  of children is one of the greatest achievements of modern public health, responsible
                  for preventing deaths and disability due to a long list of infectious diseases, including
                  smallpox, polio, diphtheria, and measles.<sup><a href="#NT8" epub:type="noteref">8</a></sup> Throughout the history of vaccination, the narrative maintains, most citizens have
                  willingly accepted vaccination, though some groups have opposed it for a variety of
                  reasons, including religious beliefs, health concerns, or ideological objections.
                  A recent development in this narrative concerns a very specific reason for opposing
                  vaccines: belief in a discredited scientific theory. The story of this belief is the
                  vaccine narrative considered here.
               </p>
               <p>This iteration of the vaccine narrative goes like this: in 1998, the medical journal
                  <em>The Lancet</em> published a study by British gastroenterologist Andrew Wakefield purporting to have
                  found a possible mechanistic link between the measles–mumps–rubella (MMR) vaccine
                  and the development of autism in children.<sup><a href="#NT9" epub:type="noteref">9</a></sup> That study, according to the narrative, kindled parental fears about vaccines and
                  led parents to refuse vaccines for their children, which resulted in outbreaks of
                  vaccine-preventable diseases such as measles and pertussis. As vaccine refusals accelerated,
                  Wakefield was found guilty of scientific misconduct and stripped of his medical license,
                  and in 2011 <em>The Lancet</em> retracted his study. Despite these developments, parents still believed in the link
                  between vaccines and autism, and their vaccine fears continued to drive disease outbreaks.<sup><a href="#NT10" epub:type="noteref">10</a></sup></p>
               <p>This turn-of-the-twenty-first-century vaccine narrative fits within larger historical
                  narratives about vaccination that highlight post–World War II vaccination acceptance
                  and enthusiasm and the recent emergence of “anti-vaccinationism” as a reprise of Progressive
                  Era vaccination opposition. I use this specific vaccine narrative here because it
                  fits neatly within larger historical vaccine narratives and because it has been cited
                  repeatedly in cultural stories about vaccines for the better part of the last decade.
                  When a 2015 US measles outbreak was traced to California's Disneyland, <em>Forbes</em> blamed it on parents who espoused anti-vaccinationism because of Wakefield's theory.<sup><a href="#NT11" epub:type="noteref">11</a></sup> <em>Newsweek</em> reported similarly when measles broke out in Berlin in that same year.<sup><a href="#NT12" epub:type="noteref">12</a></sup> After Wakefield published his study, reported <em>National Geographic</em>, “vaccination rates dropped in Britain and Western Europe, and [his] theory lived
                  on in Internet chat rooms and among believers of the anti-vax movement.”<sup><a href="#NT13" epub:type="noteref">13</a></sup> The theory was behind rising rates of rising rates of measles in England and Wales
                  in 2009 and a 2008 outbreak of the disease in San Diego, reported the <em>Los Angeles Times</em>.<sup><a href="#NT14" epub:type="noteref">14</a></sup> Wakefield's study had been debunked, retracted, and disproven countless times by
                  other researchers, and yet still parents weren't vaccinating their children, according
                  to the <em>New York Times</em>.<sup><a href="#NT15" epub:type="noteref">15</a></sup></p>
               <p>The vaccine narrative has been invoked repeatedly during outbreaks of vaccine-preventable
                  infections, but in early 2016, it surfaced in a different context: a controversy over
                  the release of <em>Vaxxed</em>, a documentary directed by Wakefield. The film – which focuses on the actions of
                  a CDC whistleblower named William Thompson – argues that the link between vaccines
                  and autism has been kept hidden by unethical practices among CDC scientists and the
                  agency's close ties to the pharmaceutical industry. <em>Vaxxed</em> was scheduled to make its debut with a screening at the internationally renowned
                  Tribeca Film Festival, co-founded by actor Robert De Niro, but when news of its inclusion
                  was released in late March, it immediately sparked a firestorm of outrage on social
                  and mainstream media.
               </p>
               <p>News outlets called Wakefield a “quack,” the film's premise “highly questionable,”
                  and the film itself something that “could put kids' lives in danger,” and quoted doctors
                  and other experts stating the same.<sup><a href="#NT16" epub:type="noteref">16</a></sup> De Niro defended the decision to include the documentary, saying the issue was “deeply
                  personal” – but before the month was through, the festival pulled the film.<sup><a href="#NT17" epub:type="noteref">17</a></sup> Media reports on the documentary almost universally invoked the vaccine narrative.
                  “We can trace the current fad for not vaccinating babies and children straight back
                  to the former doctor, and – surprise! – he's still going,” reported <em>New York Magazine</em>.<sup><a href="#NT18" epub:type="noteref">18</a></sup> “Ever since the February 1998 publication of the now-retracted paper that set this
                  eternal train in motion … health has been threatened, lives have been lost,” reported
                  <em>Forbes</em>.<sup><a href="#NT19" epub:type="noteref">19</a></sup> Such invocations conveyed the message that Wakefield lacked scientific credibility;
                  that vaccine fears were universally attributable to Wakefield, and therefore scientifically
                  unfounded; that giving credence to Wakefield posed a direct threat to human life,
                  and that there was no room for debate. “There are not two sides to every story,” concluded
                  a reporter for <em>Salon</em>.<sup><a href="#NT20" epub:type="noteref">20</a></sup></p>
               <p>Historians, too, rarely accept that there are two sides to every story – although
                  the discipline's default position is that there are usually more than two. And indeed,
                  countless stories were ignored in this narrative's construction. The narrative makes
                  no mention of other factors driving vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks, such as
                  under-vaccination among the poor and uninsured, waning vaccine-induced immunity, and
                  evolving pathogens. It also fails to acknowledge that concerns about the relationship
                  between vaccines and autism considerably antedate Wakefield's study; they can be traced
                  to at least the early 1980s, when parents who described themselves as vaccine safety
                  advocates demanded reduction of the brain-damage risk associated with the pertussis
                  component of the combined diphtheria–pertussis–tetanus vaccine.<sup><a href="#NT21" epub:type="noteref">21</a></sup> The persistence of worries about vaccine-induced developmental delays in children
                  led to autism worries that persisted from the 1980s into the 1990s and that accumulated
                  as autism rates rose alongside the number of vaccines required for children in the
                  1990s and 2000s. From this perspective, Wakefield and his colleagues undertook their
                  study in response to worries about a potential vaccine–autism link well before they
                  could ever have been considered a cause of such worries.<sup><a href="#NT22" epub:type="noteref">22</a></sup></p>
               <p>Placing the responsibility for vaccine rejection on Wakefield's shoulders also ignores
                  the diverse concerns vaccine sceptics voiced from the 1970s into the 2000s, as the
                  vaccine schedule for children grew lengthier and more complicated. Historically, anti-vaccinationists
                  who opposed vaccines for the risks they carried cited health consequences associated
                  with the biological components or contaminants of vaccines, including the microbial
                  causes of erysipelas, syphilis, and tetanus. Beginning in the 1970s – when there were
                  more vaccines than ever for children, when laws requiring them became the default
                  approach to ensuring a widely vaccinated public, and when enforcement of such laws
                  was carried out to an extent never before seen outside of epidemic contexts – the
                  focus of risk-based vaccine worries broadened. The vaccine safety movement that organized
                  in response to revelations about the risks of pertussis vaccination in the 1980s pointed
                  to biological “impurities” in the vaccine. But some critics also began scrutinizing
                  the chemical components of vaccines, including ingredients such as formaldehyde, glycerin,
                  thimerosal, and aluminum.<sup><a href="#NT23" epub:type="noteref">23</a></sup></p>
               <p>This scrutiny was a response to numerous factors, including the patient's rights movement's
                  focus on informed consent; the women's health movement's emphasis on self-education;
                  and an anti-medicalization movement that led some to question the new push for vaccination
                  against infections, such as measles and mumps, long considered a normal part of childhood.
                  This scrutiny also made sense at a time when chemical exposures associated with nearly
                  every aspect of life, from house paint to physician-prescribed drugs, had been identified
                  as causes of long-term and cross-generational health effects, including learning disabilities
                  and cancer.<sup><a href="#NT24" epub:type="noteref">24</a></sup> The fact that vaccines were increasingly understood as sources of chemical exposure
                  in the last decades of the twentieth century led, not unreasonably, to questions about
                  the connection between vaccination and neurological disorders and developmental disabilities
                  – including autism – in addition to allergies, asthma, and immune conditions. The
                  vaccine narrative excises all of these and, as a consequence, denies the claim that
                  vaccines are an exposure of public health concern.
               </p>
               <p>Pinpointing the origins of contemporary vaccine worries to Wakefield's 1998 study
                  further renders exposure worries inviable because it erases an important, concurrent
                  exposure-related episode: the policy decision to remove the mercury-based preservative
                  thimerosal from vaccines for children. At the beginning of the 1990s, the US Congress
                  asked the Environmental Protection Agency to study the health and environmental consequences
                  of mercury emissions, and, in an amendment to the Food and Drug Administration Modernization
                  Act of 1997, asked the FDA to evaluate the mercury in drugs and biologics. These moves
                  were a response to recent research revealing potentially harmful mercury levels in
                  the atmosphere, the food supply, and bodies. The FDA's investigation led to a 1999
                  statement in which the Public Health Service and the American Academy of Pediatrics
                  asked manufacturers to eliminate or reduce “the mercury content of their vaccines,”
                  citing the expanded number of vaccines added to the schedule recommended for children
                  as cause for concern. Public health experts were divided on the decision, but the
                  statement, and the vaccine reformulations that followed, gave credence to the notion
                  that vaccine ingredients were exposures of consequence. The thimerosal episode received
                  significant media attention; Wakefield's study, released the previous year, received
                  little to none in the United States (although a bit more in the United Kingdom).<sup><a href="#NT25" epub:type="noteref">25</a></sup> And yet, in the contemporary vaccine narrative, Wakefield takes the blame for a trend
                  and a set of worries well entrenched before his work was published – a narrative construction
                  that conveys the idea that vaccine exposures don't matter and never did.
               </p>
               <p>The vaccine narrative omits two more significant histories of vaccination scepticism
                  at the turn of the twenty-first century: the development of vaccine doubts among adults
                  concerned for their own health, not that of their children, and the influence of changing
                  attitudes toward drug manufacturers on lay attitudes toward vaccines. Objection to
                  new vaccination policies in the 1990s and 2000s broke out among health care workers
                  required to receive the hepatitis B vaccine (and, later, the flu vaccine) and members
                  of the military required to receive the anthrax and smallpox vaccines.<sup><a href="#NT26" epub:type="noteref">26</a></sup> As the most expensive vaccine ever brought to market, the hepatitis B vaccine, introduced
                  in the late 1980s, sparked worries about the costs of vaccines, which, in the United
                  States, president Bill Clinton helped cultivate by sharply criticizing drug manufacturers
                  as a “special interest” as he pressed for a universal vaccine purchase program for
                  the country in the 1990s.<sup><a href="#NT27" epub:type="noteref">27</a></sup> The backlash against “Big Pharma” that built from the late 1990s into the early 2000s
                  further conditioned consumers to see vaccines as pricey, possibly unnecessary commodities,
                  and expert assurances of vaccine safety as compromised by close associations among
                  drug developers, regulators, and policy makers and by the rush to bring profitable
                  new drugs to market. These factors (among others) led to robust public rejection of
                  the new human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine introduced in 2006, as well as of the US
                  state laws introduced to require it for young girls. This episode, too, is a critical
                  element of the story of popular vaccine hesitancy at the turn of the millennium, but
                  it is entirely left out of the vaccine narrative starring Wakefield.
               </p>
               <p>There are practical reasons why the stripped-down vaccine narrative exists, including
                  the economy of communication necessitated by journalism, academic writing, and policy
                  discussions. Moreover, Wakefield, a well-spoken and charismatic individual, acts in
                  ways that demand attention – directing a film on vaccine risks included in the Tribeca
                  festival being a case in point. But the narrative appears in discourse well outside
                  of events directly involving him, including that concerning the 2015 Disneyland measles
                  outbreak. It is possible to imagine that the contemporary vaccine narrative could
                  just as easily trace today's vaccine hesitancy and rejection to the statement on thimerosal
                  released in 1999, especially as not all thimerosal has been removed from all vaccines.
                  But it doesn't, because such a narrative simply wouldn't further the same agenda as
                  the one starring Wakefield.
               </p>
               <p>Juxtapose the narrative's inclusions with its exclusions, and its agenda becomes apparent.
                  The vaccine narrative endorses the vaccination status quo – the enforced vaccination
                  of children against a growing list of increasingly diverse infections – by shutting
                  out unanswerable questions and unresolvable issues. It affirms that vaccination is
                  strictly a medical matter; that it works when parents trust in experts; and that it
                  is without risk or consequence – that there are no issues related to vaccination worthy
                  of discussion beyond the matter raised by Wakefield and subsequently settled by a
                  consensus of scientists. It is no accident that the star is Wakefield, a former physician,
                  that the object is a single vaccine (MMR) and a single feared condition (autism),
                  that truth comes in the form of scientific consensus, and that supporting roles are
                  played by parents who purportedly believe in a disproven scientific theory.
               </p>
               <p>By homing in on the idea that vaccine avoidance is a consequence of autism fears,
                  the narrative asserts that there are no other reasons that people fear or resist vaccines.
                  It offers no place for a long and complicated list of lay medical questions related
                  to vaccination – not just about the connection between vaccination and developmental
                  and neurological conditions beyond autism, or between vaccination and allergies or
                  asthma, but about the health of the human immune system, both today and in future
                  generations. The roots of vaccination resistance are not merely medical in nature,
                  as lawmakers, health experts, and historians have long known. Mark Largent has cogently
                  captured the diversity of parental vaccine questions and concerns in the early twenty-first
                  century: the fear that children receive “too many” vaccines “too soon”; that the schedule
                  of vaccines for children exceeds the unknown capacity of young immune systems to handle
                  immunological tinkering; that all vaccines are treated as equally urgent despite dramatic
                  differences among the infections they prevent; that vaccination is increasingly “tickling”
                  the line between medical therapy and medical “enhancement”; and that humankind has
                  yet to resolve practical and philosophical questions about the ultimate goal of expanding
                  immunization, if not the complete elimination of all infectious disease.<sup><a href="#NT28" epub:type="noteref">28</a></sup> The vaccine narrative discredits all of these issues – and more.
               </p>
               <p>The narrative's focus on a single vaccine makes questions about the length of the
                  vaccine schedule a non-issue. Its treatment of this single vaccine as representative
                  presents all vaccines as equivalently safe and urgent. Its attention to a single and
                  unsupported vaccine risk dismisses the existence of other risks, whether theoretical
                  or real. By defining vaccine safety as something that can be proved within a few years
                  or decades, the narrative excises concerns about how vaccination is reshaping human
                  bodies from one generation to the next. And its selection of a vaccination question
                  settled through epidemiological methods affirms vaccination as the exclusive domain
                  of public health and medical experts, leaving no room for philosophical or ideological
                  debate. The narrative's delegitimizing of philosophical or subjective questions makes
                  possible the elimination of philosophical exemptions to vaccination mandates in US
                  states, such as that signed into law in California following the outbreak of measles
                  traced to Disneyland in 2015.<sup><a href="#NT29" epub:type="noteref">29</a></sup></p>
               <p>This narrative, like all narratives, makes sense for its moment and its medium and
                  carries a sanctioned set of morals: that public health is a top-down activity, its
                  experts dependable and trustworthy, its technologies safe, effective, and to be used
                  by an unquestioning public. It's a set of morals, in short, that function in many
                  ways in opposition to the moral of the contemporaneous narrative concerning DDT.
               </p>
            </section>
            <section id="the-ddt-narrative">
               <h2>The DDT Narrative</h2>
               <p>DDT has often been proclaimed one of the most important public health discoveries
                  of the twentieth century, a distinction that puts stories about the chemical on par
                  with vaccine narratives for their cultural prominence and influence. The organochlorine
                  compound dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, first synthesized in the late nineteenth
                  century, was discovered to be a potent insect killer in the late 1930s. Its insecticidal
                  properties were uncovered by a scientist at the Swiss chemical manufacturer Geigy,
                  but as the chemical's story acquired shape and meaning in North America, particularly
                  in the United States, its Swiss origins were often downplayed in favour of the drama
                  that subsequently played out in the United States and on the global stage.<sup><a href="#NT30" epub:type="noteref">30</a></sup></p>
               <p>The simple DDT narrative goes like this: the discovery of DDT, the least toxic and
                  most powerful insect killer of its time, helped the Allies win World War II by clearing
                  battlegrounds of disease-carrying insects that threatened Allied troops. During and
                  after the war, DDT was dubbed a miracle, likened to the atomic bomb, and hailed a
                  hero of the war effort. After the war, the Geigy chemist was awarded a Nobel Prize
                  and postwar Americans enthusiastically welcomed DDT into their homes and neighbourhoods,
                  dousing themselves and their environment with the chemical without question – until
                  Rachel Carson published her 1962 critique of pesticides, <em>Silent Spring</em>. This book, which helped inspire the environmental movement, turned public sentiment
                  so firmly against the insecticide that the United States ultimately banned it in 1972.
               </p>
               <p>The American story of DDT often ends there, but the chemical's history includes another
                  dimension often cited in narratives that emphasize its global public health and medical
                  importance. In this story, DDT deserves special recognition for eliminating malaria
                  from the United States and for its central role in a global, World Health Organization
                  (WHO)–led malaria eradication campaign launched in the 1950s. The US DDT ban, according
                  to this narrative, brought the campaign to a halt, and malaria rebounded in the decades
                  that followed. In the 1990s, with malaria proving intractable in the world's poorest
                  regions, including much of sub-Saharan Africa, health experts began to debate whether
                  it was time to “bring back” DDT. When more than 90 nations signed the Stockholm Convention
                  calling for a global ban on persistent organic pollutants in 2004, they made an exception
                  for DDT in areas with few other good resources for combating the disease, and pledged
                  to continue to evaluate the right time and place for DDT – a project that continues
                  to this day.<sup><a href="#NT31" epub:type="noteref">31</a></sup></p>
               <p>The DDT narrative has a broader reach than the vaccine narrative, largely because
                  it is not confined to public health. For this reason, it has become a legible reference
                  point in college lectures, textbooks, trade books, documentaries, and more on war,
                  the rise of a global superpower, Western consumerism, industrial agriculture, the
                  environment, and the social movements to protect it. The DDT narrative appears in
                  media reporting, too, waxing and waning with debates about the regulatory reach of
                  the state or perceived health or environmental threats. As West Nile virus spread
                  across North America in the early 2000s, for example, op-eds and pundits reminisced
                  about DDT and recounted its story in conversations about whether it was time for the
                  pesticide's return.<sup><a href="#NT32" epub:type="noteref">32</a></sup> When bedbug infestations broke out in major metropolitan areas a few years after
                  that, DDT's story was trotted out again as talking heads battled over whether the
                  comeback could be blamed on the global north's DDT ban.<sup><a href="#NT33" epub:type="noteref">33</a></sup> Early in 2016, DDT's story began to recirculate once more, this time in reporting
                  on the outbreak of the mosquito-borne Zika virus.
               </p>
               <p>Zika, a so-called emerging infection, first appeared in the Americas in 2015. In March
                  of that year it cropped up in Brazil, and seven months later it had spread so quickly
                  that the country “ceased counting cases.”<sup><a href="#NT34" epub:type="noteref">34</a></sup> The virus had been suspected of causing microcephaly in past outbreaks; a new cluster
                  in Brazil seemed to confirm the link.<sup><a href="#NT35" epub:type="noteref">35</a></sup> Zika is carried by <em>Aedes aegypti</em>, which news reports dubbed “a particularly wily foe” and “the cockroach” of mosquitoes,
                  with a range from the United States to Argentina.<sup><a href="#NT36" epub:type="noteref">36</a></sup> With the WHO announcing that Zika was “spreading explosively” and Brazil scheduled
                  to host the 2016 Summer Olympic Games, public health officials across the Americas
                  offered guidance on curbing Zika's damage: delay pregnancy, use repellent and clothing
                  to guard against bites, and take measures to eliminate the mosquito.<sup><a href="#NT37" epub:type="noteref">37</a></sup> In early 2016, the <em>New York Times</em> reported that with “standard” anti-mosquito methods proving insufficient against
                  Zika, DDT was “being mentioned a bit” by “some experts” who believed it still had
                  a place in controlling disease.<sup><a href="#NT38" epub:type="noteref">38</a></sup></p>
               <p>Throughout the first half of 2016, DDT cropped up repeatedly in reporting and popular
                  discourse on Zika. Some reports summed up DDT's entire life story, from wartime discovery
                  to 1970s ban to turn-of-the-millennium reconsideration. Others simply referenced one
                  or another aspect of DDT's past, typically to make points relevant to the present.
                  In the many versions of DDT's story that were repeated in this context, the pesticide
                  was a technology that determined the victors in war and whose excellence was a signifier
                  of US (and Western) supremacy. DDT “played a crucial role in helping Allied forces,”
                  reported <em>Time</em> that winter.<sup><a href="#NT39" epub:type="noteref">39</a></sup> The <em>Los Angeles Times</em> recounted how, when 500 American soldiers a day began succumbing to dengue fever
                  during the 1944 US invasion of Saipan, their commanders “blasted” a 25-square-mile
                  area (almost 65 km<sup>2</sup>) with kerosene and DDT. The outcome: “Aegypti lost, and then so did the Japanese.”<sup><a href="#NT40" epub:type="noteref">40</a></sup> Press accounts told of how DDT fell out of favour less than a generation later, when
                  a “movement” inspired by <em>Silent Spring</em> was no longer willing to withstand the pesticide's damage to the environment, “especially
                  bird populations.”<sup><a href="#NT41" epub:type="noteref">41</a></sup> US hegemony is no less important to this turn in the narrative, as the country's
                  decision prompted other nations to “follow suit” and “join the U.S.” in implementing
                  bans of their own. This narrative inclusion carries the subtle message that when it
                  comes to using DDT to fight Zika, the same hierarchy ought to apply.
               </p>
               <p>But the very same narrative also suggests, not entirely paradoxically, that the United
                  States' past actions cannot be followed by others in the present. Between the war
                  and the ban, according to the DDT narrative, the United States used the pesticide
                  to “eliminate” malaria within its own borders, an achievement that helped set the
                  stage for the global campaign to wipe out the disease.<sup><a href="#NT42" epub:type="noteref">42</a></sup> While DDT was an effective tool to combat malaria in the postwar United States, however,
                  it was “only partly” responsible for the “huge blow to Aedes aegypti” dealt by Brazil
                  and other tropical countries, as a <em>New York Times</em> blogger explained.<sup><a href="#NT43" epub:type="noteref">43</a></sup> In the spring of 2016, DDT's past successes outside the United States – and in 1950s
                  Brazil in particular – were attributed to “intrusive home inspections” carried out
                  by an “authoritarian government,” with “fumigators sometimes entering houses by force.”<sup><a href="#NT44" epub:type="noteref">44</a></sup> Victory over malaria-carrying mosquitoes globally was chalked up to “equal parts
                  authoritarianism, DDT sprays and sanitation.”<sup><a href="#NT45" epub:type="noteref">45</a></sup> “It's just a completely different world now,” a prominent entomologist told the press.<sup><a href="#NT46" epub:type="noteref">46</a></sup> DDT's success belonged to an antiquated world order and a moment long gone. And while
                  other countries may have needed to combine DDT with authoritarianism and aggression,
                  the United States, according to the narrative, did not.
               </p>
               <p>The DDT narrative has been constructed and recounted precisely because it buttresses
                  a specific US identity, one that highlights the nation's superpower status, its reputation
                  as global leader, and its identity as an exception to global rules. The narrative's
                  omissions make this clear. DDT may have played a crucial role in war, but there was
                  more than combat behind the American public's attitudes toward DDT, both during the
                  war and after its end. After the war, DDT was heavily promoted in a new consumer environment
                  that arose in tandem with an advertising boom, in the context of which it became a
                  valued product for keeping homes and communities pest (and germ) free; it simultaneously
                  found a variety of roles to play in the West's rapidly industrializing agricultural
                  system, from protecting crops to increasing yields of milk and beef.<sup><a href="#NT47" epub:type="noteref">47</a></sup> American attitudes toward DDT were also more complicated than the narrative allows,
                  and Carson's role in shaping those attitudes more complicated still. Concerns about
                  DDT's effects on non-target insects, on nature's balance, and on humans through residues
                  in food all preceded Carson, as did worries about the time frame across which DDT's
                  benefits were weighed against its risks. The narrative places the power to right the
                  wrongs of a military-industrial complex in the hands of the populace of a participatory
                  democracy, but this, too, is a deliberately (if unconsciously) selective presentation
                  of the past meant to highlight the effective functioning of checks-and-balances governance.
                  For there were market forces that also made the ban possible but that have no starring
                  role in the narrative.
               </p>
               <p>To take the narrative's beginning, the story of DDT as a signifier of US exceptionalism
                  was shaped early on, when wartime US news reports maintained that because the Swiss
                  had no idea how powerful DDT was, it had to be smuggled out by Americans, the only
                  ones who knew its real power.<sup><a href="#NT48" epub:type="noteref">48</a></sup> A few reports even ignored the Swiss connection entirely, presenting DDT as a US
                  discovery. DDT's story was reshaped more subtly and powerfully still in an American
                  context that placed the pesticide's origins not in the late nineteenth century, when
                  an Austrian graduate student synthesized the chemical compound, but three generations
                  later, at the dawn of the American golden age of biomedicine. DDT's power, in this
                  narrative, lies in its discovered utility. An Austrian scientist may have synthesized
                  it, and a Swiss chemist may have uncovered its ability to kill insects, but it was
                  only the Americans who revealed it as a long-unrecognized solution to the greatest
                  complicating factor of all wars: disease. Disconnecting DDT from its nineteenth-century
                  roots became a means of disconnecting twentieth-century American public health and
                  medicine from their own nineteenth-century European roots. DDT, in this story, is
                  a signifier of US modernity – especially scientific modernity – and stands as proof
                  positive of the link between scientific excellence and global might.
               </p>
               <p>Portrayed as a hero during the war, DDT was given a hero's welcome when it returned
                  home to the United States afterwards. This is a critical part of the DDT narrative,
                  which describes a nation so overcome with patriotic faith in science and technocracy
                  that it embraced DDT's application in nearly every aspect of life. This section of
                  the narrative reflects the historiography on DDT, which depicts postwar housewives
                  dousing their homes with DDT bug bombs, city officials faithfully spraying suburban
                  streets, and children “frolicking” in DDT mist, all without question.<sup><a href="#NT49" epub:type="noteref">49</a></sup> The same body of literature describes those who expressed worries about DDT or spoke
                  out against it as few in number, dismissed as “hysterical,” and well outside “expert”
                  spheres.<sup><a href="#NT50" epub:type="noteref">50</a></sup> Such histories reflect the sources on which they are based: scientific and government
                  reports produced for the war effort and archives of powerful institutions, such as
                  the Rockefeller Foundation, with an express interest in maintaining DDT's reputation
                  for safety and effectiveness because it both prevented disease and, in doing so, powerfully
                  demonstrated Western authority.
               </p>
               <p>Broaden the source base and analytical lens, however, and this history looks different.
                  A wide array of individuals, from FDA scientists to county agents, beekeepers, farmers,
                  and consumers, spent the years during and after the war voicing concerns about DDT's
                  effects on nature and on human health. The story of the pesticide as war hero is not
                  based on such voices – or on the values they represented. When such voices are included
                  in examination of the historical record, they suggest that contemporary illustrations
                  of the postwar DDT-trusting public are misinterpretations.<sup><a href="#NT51" epub:type="noteref">51</a></sup> Middle-class housewives doused their kitchens with DDT in postwar ads, newspaper
                  photos, documentary films, and more not necessarily because that was how they already
                  behaved in real life but because it was how they were being instructed to act.<sup><a href="#NT52" epub:type="noteref">52</a></sup> The oft-shown <em>National Geographic</em> photograph of a child playing in the spray of a DDT truck emblazoned with the words
                  “DDT … Harmless to Humans” is not evidence that the public didn't fear the insecticide
                  but evidence that they were told there was nothing to fear.<sup><a href="#NT53" epub:type="noteref">53</a></sup> When such images are interpreted alongside US Army reports that endorsed DDT's widespread
                  use (albeit in war), they seem to suggest a trusting and embracing public. But the
                  text of that very <em>National Geographic</em> article reported that DDT was harmful to animals and that there were unresolved questions
                  about its safety – messages now lost in misreadings of visual artefacts of the past.
               </p>
               <p>After the war, US health officials deployed DDT against malaria and typhus across
                  the South, and manufacturers advertised (and consumers purchased) DDT to protect themselves
                  from polio, scarlet fever, measles, and more – infections against which DDT proved
                  powerless, and which have therefore been written out of its narrative entirely.<sup><a href="#NT54" epub:type="noteref">54</a></sup> But DDT's wartime accomplishment became its postwar promise, which is partly why
                  the DDT narrative overstates its role in eliminating malaria from the United States.
                  Though malaria was fully eradicated six years into DDT's deployment, even the director
                  of the agency that coordinated those efforts said that “the best we can claim … is
                  that we kicked a dying dog.”<sup><a href="#NT55" epub:type="noteref">55</a></sup> As Margaret Humphreys shows, credit for malaria elimination is more aptly distributed
                  across postwar prosperity, better housing, improved nutrition, access to drugs, and
                  – above all – policies that relocated the “at-risk population” away from environments
                  in which the mosquito thrived.<sup><a href="#NT56" epub:type="noteref">56</a></sup> But in the DDT narrative, the pesticide alone, sprayed on walls by hand and over
                  great swaths of land by plane, eclipses all of these.
               </p>
               <p>The prominence of malaria in the DDT narrative's first act upholds the idea that infectious
                  diseases are problems with singular, easily identified and targeted causes that lend
                  themselves to technological – as opposed to social or political – solutions. It also
                  upholds the basis of public health institution building; as Humphrey notes, the US
                  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention grew out of wartime malaria control efforts,
                  giving the agency an interest in promoting continued malaria control efforts after
                  the war.<sup><a href="#NT57" epub:type="noteref">57</a></sup> Crediting DDT with malaria's elimination from the United States – even in part –
                  affirms the power of the new wartime institution narratively behind this success even
                  as it discredits social, environmental, and economic means of managing infectious
                  diseases.<sup><a href="#NT58" epub:type="noteref">58</a></sup> This act of the narrative also conveys the idea that success is inherent to technology;
                  thus, the public turn against DDT inspired by <em>Silent Spring</em> is the reason behind DDT's downfall – not rapidly spreading insect resistance nor
                  the uneven political will that led the WHO to abandon global malaria eradication before
                  that goal was reached.
               </p>
               <p>The narrative's emphasis on DDT's dual peacetime identities – as public health panacea
                  and consumer commodity – is a meaningful distraction from its role in postwar agriculture.
                  As production of all pesticides ballooned from 100 million to 300 million pounds between
                  1945 and 1950, DDT production rose from 33 million to more than 100 million pounds.<sup><a href="#NT59" epub:type="noteref">59</a></sup> The bulk of this volume went to agricultural use, because DDT seemed the safest and
                  most cost-effective solution to the challenges of postwar agriculture, including labour
                  shortages, increased production costs, and falling commodity prices.<sup><a href="#NT60" epub:type="noteref">60</a></sup> By controlling agricultural pests, DDT appeared to increase yields of corn, beef,
                  and milk by as much as 50%, thus reversing or slowing profit losses.<sup><a href="#NT61" epub:type="noteref">61</a></sup> But with the US population moving away from rural areas and farms, this use of DDT
                  was far less visible than its deployment against disease-carrying pests and its household
                  use in urban and suburban spaces.<sup><a href="#NT62" epub:type="noteref">62</a></sup></p>
               <p>The DDT narrative overlooks the fact that the pesticide's reputational standing in
                  both public health and agriculture was on the decline well before Carson's <em>Silent Spring</em> was published. Newly developed synthetic agricultural chemicals may have been incredibly
                  profitable after the war, but very quickly DDT – off-patent and manufactured by nearly
                  every scale of insecticide maker – was not. Major manufacturer DuPont reported that
                  it lost $0.03 on every pound of DDT it manufactured, a loss that prompted it to cease
                  production in the mid-1950s.<sup><a href="#NT63" epub:type="noteref">63</a></sup> DDT's use in agriculture began to fall off at the same time, thanks to spreading
                  insect resistance and growing worries about the pesticide's accumulation in animal
                  fat and milk – and, therefore, in the human diet.<sup><a href="#NT64" epub:type="noteref">64</a></sup> Farmers responded by combining DDT with other chemicals or abandoning it altogether,
                  as did public health officials. Health officials' attitudes toward DDT shifted in
                  other ways, too. The WHO's global anti-malaria program, inspired by reports of DDT-driven
                  malaria eradication in North America, made eradication its goal partly because of
                  concerns that spreading insect resistance meant any hope of malaria control would
                  be lost once DDT ceased to work entirely; it had to be used quickly, before it couldn't
                  be used at all.<sup><a href="#NT65" epub:type="noteref">65</a></sup> In other words, expert and professional doubts about DDT circulated widely before
                  Carson purportedly turned the public against it.
               </p>
               <p>Carson receives credit for “catalyzing” public environmental concern about DDT,<sup><a href="#NT66" epub:type="noteref">66</a></sup> and her book for signalling “the start of the environmental movement.”<sup><a href="#NT67" epub:type="noteref">67</a></sup> But her work, like Wakefield's, was a response to pervasive and pre-existing worries.
                  Moreover, as numerous historians highlight, <em>Silent Spring</em>'s scope was bigger than birds and DDT; it was a critique of postwar synthetic pesticides
                  and industrial agriculture, and it charged that scientific paradigms were unequipped
                  to detect or quantify the full scope of the new chemicals' risks to humans. As Finis
                  Dunaway, for example, notes, early media coverage of <em>Silent Spring</em> “singled out DDT as the nation's sole pesticide danger,” and the book became well
                  known for its fable of a town in which no birds sang.<sup><a href="#NT68" epub:type="noteref">68</a></sup> But it was also a town in which “farmers spoke of much illness among their families”
                  and “doctors had become more and more puzzled.”<sup><a href="#NT69" epub:type="noteref">69</a></sup> Man, Carson argued, had created a world in which no one was safe from cancer-causing
                  chemicals and no one was fully capable of measuring or interpreting the risks they
                  posed.
               </p>
               <p>The environmental movement that took on DDT as its seminal cause placed Carson's ideas
                  about environmental causes of cancer at the forefront of its campaigns to have the
                  pesticide banned – another historical reality that the DDT narrative alternately misunderstands
                  and ignores. As activist groups mobilized to secure local bans on DDT in the 1960s,
                  they initially highlighted its harms to wildlife, especially fish and birds. But as
                  their fight against DDT picked up momentum and visibility, they placed the human health
                  risks it posed at the centre of their strategy. Environmentalists collected, repackaged,
                  and publicized evidence that DDT had negative effects on the endocrine systems and
                  livers of animals; was accumulating in human milk; had unknown long-term toxicity
                  in humans; and could be construed as a possible carcinogen, based on animal studies
                  and emerging human epidemiological studies. The epidemiologic findings remain unconfirmed
                  to this day – but it didn't matter.<sup><a href="#NT70" epub:type="noteref">70</a></sup> Environmentalists made a deliberate link between DDT and cigarettes and argued that
                  it was unwise to wait decades for definitive proof that the former caused cancer,
                  when doing just that had led to countless preventable deaths from the latter. When
                  the newly formed US Environmental Protection Agency announced that it would cancel
                  DDT's registration (effectively imposing a ban) in 1972, the written decision prominently
                  cited the chemical's <em>potential</em> carcinogenicity – exactly as environmentalists had hoped.<sup><a href="#NT71" epub:type="noteref">71</a></sup></p>
               <p>The DDT narrative often presents the moment of the ban as a symbol of the environmental
                  movement's success in overcoming the power of industrial interests and their bureaucratic
                  guardians in order to protect nature. Casting the ban in this way ignores the central
                  role of new health values in turning the popular and political tide against DDT. It
                  also ignores the absence of a commercial interest in or defence of DDT. As Frederick
                  Rowe Davis argues, because DDT was included in thousands of products manufactured
                  by hundreds of companies, banning it “did not place a burden on any one chemical company
                  in the way that banning a proprietary [patented] pesticide would have”; moreover,
                  the ban allowed chemical companies producing proprietary organophosphate pesticides
                  to realize “significant profits” as the agricultural industry switched from DDT to
                  alternatives.<sup><a href="#NT72" epub:type="noteref">72</a></sup> What is construed as one of the “greatest successes of the environmental movement,”
                  Davis notes, did little to immediately change overall pesticide use and regulation,
                  and, further, swapped out an acutely nontoxic pesticide for a class of pesticides
                  whose acute toxicity took a greater toll on agricultural workers and wildlife. In
                  other words, an episode commonly read as a seminal victory for the environmental movement
                  could just as well be read as a victory for an industry ready to wash its hands of
                  DDT and move on to more profitable products. “If history teaches us anything,” concludes
                  Davis, “it is to be wary of simple stories.”<sup><a href="#NT73" epub:type="noteref">73</a></sup></p>
               <p>DDT's simple story, in both popular and academic texts, is a story of American scientific
                  and cultural modernity, a modernity defined in each new act in the drama by a break
                  from a changing but consistently “archaic and stable past.”<sup><a href="#NT74" epub:type="noteref">74</a></sup> The currently prevailing DDT narrative's omissions and inclusions reify Western (and
                  particularly US) power in the postwar period. They place scientific and technological
                  accomplishment at the roots of that power, and they uphold the power and the top-down,
                  technologically determined approach of postwar public health institutions. In emphasizing
                  the power of social movements to remake society for the better, the narrative also
                  supports the self-correcting justness of democratic governance. Lastly, the DDT narrative
                  is a story about how, to borrow Michelle Murphy's articulation, exposures matter,
                  or are made to matter – that is, for reasons that have more to do with power, politics,
                  and social relations than with scientific evidence, some exposures become visible
                  and actionable while others remain hidden or dismissed.<sup><a href="#NT75" epub:type="noteref">75</a></sup> How DDT matters as an exposure in its own narrative perhaps signals the narrative's
                  most meaningful departure from the moral of the vaccine narrative.
               </p>
            </section>
            <section id="narrative-intersection">
               <h2>Narrative Intersection</h2>
               <p>Narratives, as noted in the introduction to this essay, are not fixed; a narrative's
                  very form changes from one moment to the next, as does its context, its audience,
                  the interests of its authors, its understood meaning, and more. In recent Zika discourse,
                  health experts offered a revised explanation for DDT's downfall. This explanation
                  dates to a set of conversations that took place in the 1990s, about the possibility
                  of bringing back DDT in places where malaria rates were climbing alarmingly. These
                  discussions culminated in a 2006 policy change at the WHO, which endorsed DDT for
                  limited indoor use against malaria in countries with great need. News reports on DDT's
                  place in Zika control acknowledged that the pesticide is still used for malaria control
                  in a number of countries in Africa – and that this is because there is a “responsible”
                  way to use it. The fatal error in past DDT use, as then CDC director Tom Frieden put
                  it, occurred in the agricultural sector, where DDT was applied in misguided and reckless
                  ways – the opposite of the targeted way in which it is applied to save lives.<sup><a href="#NT76" epub:type="noteref">76</a></sup> In this third act of the narrative, current experts position themselves as more enlightened
                  than past ones. Their expertise stems in part from learning from past mistakes, and
                  with this wisdom they determine the appropriate limits to govern use of powerful technologies.
                  It is noteworthy that the blame for the damage once wrought by DDT now rests with
                  the agricultural industry: this, specifically, is an explanation for our times, when
                  it has become culturally acceptable (and even fashionable) to blame the excesses and
                  perversions of industrial agriculture for health challenges ranging from obesity to
                  respiratory disease.
               </p>
               <p>But health experts did not endorse DDT for Zika control in 2016. Two of their stated
                  reasons stood out – and stood in (unintended) opposition to public health messaging
                  about vaccines. First, DDT's success belonged, as noted above, to a different world
                  order, and to a bygone relationship between scientific authorities and the public.
                  As two Johns Hopkins University scientists put it, “knocking on any door in the city
                  with the world's safest insecticide and saying, ‘Hello, I'm from the government and
                  I want to spray your home with this chemical. Trust me,’” is “just unthinkable now.”<sup><a href="#NT77" epub:type="noteref">77</a></sup> That trust, in short, no longer exists either within nations or between them. Yet
                  this scenario is closely akin to what US health officials ask – or require – through
                  policies that mandate vaccinations for children or promote them abroad. The success
                  of both vaccination and DDT-based disease prevention rely on human populations acting
                  in concert and in deference to scientific authority. The DDT narrative highlights
                  the limits of this approach even as the vaccine narrative demands that it not be questioned.
                  In short, this explanation of DDT's unsuitability points up one way in which the vaccine
                  and DDT narratives intersected at cross-purposes in 2016.
               </p>
               <p>The second reason DDT was not the responsible solution to Zika's spread had to do
                  with the risks it posed – not to wildlife, but to humans. The effects of acute, high-dose
                  DDT exposure are well documented: vomiting, tremors, numbness, and liver damage. But
                  they set in only after such incredibly high doses that they aren't considered an attendant
                  risk of the pesticide's public health deployment. Instead, recent news reports (and
                  historical work), cite the range of long-term health problems potentially associated
                  with DDT exposure: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, developmental
                  delay in children, infertility, breast cancer, and cancer in general. The depth of
                  the evidentiary base supporting these associations varies widely, but that's not why
                  they're cited. They're cited because DDT exposure matters, and to ensure that it continues
                  to matter. Here, again, the DDT and vaccine narratives clash.
               </p>
               <p>Because it persists and bioaccumulates, DDT is the exposure that can't be eliminated.
                  It is an exposure first assumed decades ago in efforts to improve public health, but
                  where DDT's target disease threats are now gone, the pesticide remains – in the environment,
                  wildlife, and human bodies. The DDT narrative does not assure us that these body burdens
                  are safe. Instead, it offers a reminder that additional exposure is too risky to bear.
                  The vaccine narrative, meanwhile, ignores exposure, despite the fact that the social
                  movement that features in the narrative cites exposure as a central concern. The so-called
                  anti-vaccine movement makes the very arguments that the anti-DDT movement did decades
                  ago: that lack of short-term harm is not proof of long-term safety, that there are
                  scientific questions about exposure that scientists do not ask because they are not
                  equipped to answer them, and that exposures matter when their long-term consequences
                  remain uncertain. This part of vaccination history is excised from the vaccine narrative
                  because it enables the narrative to do the work it was constructed to do – deliver
                  the message that exposure does not matter, even as other public health narratives
                  insist that it does.
               </p>
               <p>The exposures in the two public health narratives considered here – MMR in one narrative,
                  DDT in the other – are assumed against specific risks: measles, mumps, and rubella,
                  in the first case, and insect-borne infections such as malaria, dengue, and (possibly)
                  Zika in the second. All of these risks are far outweighed in the West by the risk
                  of many forms of cancer, one of the very hazards potentially associated with DDT,
                  and autism, one of the risks that some vaccine sceptics worry is associated with vaccines.
                  The DDT narrative supports the contention that vaccines are worth worrying about,
                  precisely because cancer looms bigger than Zika and autism looms bigger than measles.
                  Vaccine defenders argue that developed nations are free of measles only because of
                  successful deployment of the vaccine, but to vaccine critics, such arguments involve
                  a value judgement regarding risk that they do not share. As vaccine critic Jenny McCarthy
                  once put it, “If you ask a parent of an autistic child if they want the measles or
                  the autism, we will stand in line for the … measles.”<sup><a href="#NT78" epub:type="noteref">78</a></sup> The vaccine, in this view, represents a certain exposure that carries with it a trade-off
                  among uncertain disease risks, one (measles) perceived as preferable to the other
                  (autism) in a specific twenty-first-century context.
               </p>
               <p>McCarthy, once widely quoted and later vilified for her vaccine views, is largely
                  absent from the 2016 vaccine narrative considered in this essay. In her place stands
                  Wakefield, whose followers believe that there are hazards associated with listening
                  uncritically to scientific experts, that experts do not always have the interests
                  of the public in mind, and that it is the right and responsibility of citizens in
                  a democracy to point out the exposures that matter and demand protection from them.
                  These are the lessons of the second act of the DDT narrative, which affirms the importance
                  of listening to scientific figures who push back against establishment norms – like
                  Rachel Carson – and affirms their power to lead social movements. The DDT narrative
                  is one of many postwar scientific narratives about the fallibility of science, which
                  in Harry Collins' view led to the rise of “default expertise” evident in the vaccine
                  narrative.<sup><a href="#NT79" epub:type="noteref">79</a></sup> There are numerous, critically important distinctions between Wakefield and Carson,
                  of course, not least of which is the fact that Wakefield was found guilty of scientific
                  misconduct and stripped of his expert credentials. But both sustained remarkably parallel
                  attacks in their own time: that they were purveyors of “junk” science, embraced visions
                  clouded by their values, elevated emotion over reason, and endangered public welfare
                  by spreading misinformation about technologies critical to human survival. Both despite
                  and for these reasons, each one plays a pivotal role in a public health narrative
                  that tells citizens who they are and how, as <em>bio</em>citizens, they should behave.<sup><a href="#NT80" epub:type="noteref">80</a></sup></p>
               <p>The narratives agree, however, that health citizens must subordinate individual privilege
                  to the pursuit of public health. As an expert in public health law told the <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, opposition to DDT and related pesticides comes “largely from privileged northerners
                  who aren't dying of mosquito-borne illnesses.”<sup><a href="#NT81" epub:type="noteref">81</a></sup> This position posits DDT doubts as self-centred – akin to how vaccine avoiders have
                  been cast in the vaccine narrative. Such individuals “are just incredibly selfish,”
                  a paediatric disease expert said during California's 2015 measles outbreak.<sup><a href="#NT82" epub:type="noteref">82</a></sup> Media reports have also cast “anti-vaccine” parents as privileged members of their
                  own society, tying selfishness to material wealth in the same way the DDT narrative
                  does. The ability to accept or reject risks of different types is a privilege that
                  operates at different scales in both narratives – but in both cases it is an obstacle
                  to the pursuit of public health, the achievement of which is predicated on the exchange
                  of individual rights or privileges for the collective good.
               </p>
               <p>The two narratives instruct health citizens to make different uses of the past. In
                  the vaccine narrative, the past is a reminder of the risks of preventable diseases,
                  a time when infections such as smallpox, polio, diphtheria, and measles sickened children
                  and sometimes killed them, a time before technology gave humanity the means to keep
                  such threats at bay. In the DDT narrative, the past is a cautionary tale against the
                  misuse of technologies in the present; past haste to use technology, heedless of long-term
                  consequences, is a warning against thinking in too limited a way about risks and benefits
                  today. These are, in sum, stories with opposing morals on multiple levels, circulating
                  in the same moment and speaking to the same ostensible end goal of improved public
                  health. Or, at least, they are as I have laid them out here. Historians, writes Patrick
                  Finney, “have always been involved in fabricating subjective ideological constructs,
                  interested representations rather than neutral reconstructions of the past.”<sup><a href="#NT83" epub:type="noteref">83</a></sup> And in considering these narratives, I too have created a new and inherently subjective
                  one through the process of curating the stories, and histories, referenced here.
               </p>
               <p>In doing so, I have overlooked points of commonality, overlap, intersection, and contradiction.
                  Both DDT and vaccines have been employed and envisioned as tools of infectious disease
                  control, if not elimination; both have achieved remarkable success in that respect;
                  and both have been used with force on disempowered and subaltern populations.<sup><a href="#NT84" epub:type="noteref">84</a></sup> Both narratives concern environmental values – regarding what is natural and the
                  ramifications of human interaction with nature.<sup><a href="#NT85" epub:type="noteref">85</a></sup> Vaccines and DDT control very different types of diseases, one a collection of largely
                  “childhood” infections, the other an ever-evolving list of emerging insect-borne threats.
                  Vaccines are now used as a matter of routine; DDT is now invoked (in places of privilege)
                  only as an emergency measure. One affects the health of living children; the other
                  (with respect to Zika) the unborn. The vaccine narrative ignores global health; the
                  DDT narrative places it in service of national identity. Issues of race, class, and
                  gender shape both narratives in ways I have not even mentioned in passing here. But
                  it was not my aim to suggest that these and only these narratives are uniquely comparable,
                  or to be exhaustive in comparing the two.
               </p>
               <p>I have created this narrative shape to serve a particular agenda. History's main contribution
                  to civil society, I believe, is its potential not just to tell stories but to tell
                  them differently than they have been told before. The omissions in the DDT and vaccine
                  narratives highlighted here signal, to me, the great need for historians to continue
                  to do what we do best: closely examine sources, bring new evidence to light, and tell
                  the stories that have not yet been told, particularly when it comes to some of the
                  most deeply embedded stories circulating in the history and practice of medicine and
                  public health. In the history of medicine, as in any subfield, we have the stories
                  we reach for as shorthand for what happened when and why. The stories we reach for
                  so easily, the ones we assume we all know, are exactly the ones most worthy of further
                  exploration.
               </p>
               <p>A generation ago, Cronon invited environmental historians to tell more stories about
                  stories. Telling stories about our stories about the past has much potential to shed
                  light on contemporary scientific debates and stalemates, by enabling us to see how
                  our narratives uphold our competing senses of ourselves, and our great public health
                  and medical challenges, in the present. Because our stories are our histories and
                  prophecies both, as Cronon put it, telling stories about our stories can help us contribute
                  to broader conversations about future directions for medical and public health practice
                  and policy – something historians, though sometimes loath, are uniquely well positioned
                  to do.
               </p>
            </section>
         </section>
         <section property="sa:articleBackMatter" datatype="rdf:HTML">
            <section id="acknowledgements" epub:type="acknowledgments">
               <h2>Acknowledgments</h2>
               <p>Thanks to the Center for Science, Technology, Medicine and Society MEDS group at the
                  University of California, Berkeley, for invaluable feedback on this essay. An early
                  version of this essay was presented as the AMS-Paterson Lecture at the 2016 CSHM-SCHM
                  Conference, and I am grateful for attendees' insightful remarks and critical commentary.
                  Research for this essay was supported in part by a 2015–2016 Cain Fellowship from
                  the Chemical Heritage Foundation.
               </p>
            </section>
            <section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
               <h2>Notes</h2>
               <ol>
                  <li id="NT1">
                     <p>Public health is a project of the state, and states have traditionally relied on mainstream
                        news outlets to reach the public. My interest in considering how narrative influences
                        the pursuit of public health goals, therefore, limited my source base to mainstream
                        media sources. I acknowledge that different narratives about DDT and vaccines circulate
                        on blogs, Facebook groups, websites serving specific interests or patient groups,
                        and elsewhere, but I do not consider these narratives part of the state's pursuit
                        of public health.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT2">
                     <p>On narrative theory see, from a vast literature, Robert Scholes, James Phelan, and
                        Robert Kellogg, <em>The Nature of Narrative</em> (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), 4.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT3">
                     <p>Charles L. Briggs and Daniel C. Hallin, <em>Making Health Public: How News Coverage Is Remaking Media, Medicine, and Contemporary
                           Life</em> (New York: Routledge, 2016).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT4">
                     <p>Jouni-Matti Kuukkanen, “The Missing Narrativist Turn in the Historiography of Science,”
                        <em>History and Theory</em> 51 (2012): 340–63.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT5">
                     <p>See, e.g., David Carr, <em>Time, Narrative and History: An Essay in the Philosophy of History</em> (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1986); Hayden White, <em>The Content of the Form: Narrative Discourse and Historical Representation</em> (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1987).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT6">
                     <p>William Cronon, “A Place for Stories: Nature, History, and Narrative,” <em>Journal of American History</em> 78 (1992): 1347–76, 1349.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT7">
                     <p>Cronon, “A Place for Stories,” 1350.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT8">
                     <p>Arthur Allen, <em>Vaccine: The Controversial Story of Medicine's Greatest Lifesaver</em> (New York: W.W. Norton, 2007); James K. Colgrove, <em>State of Immunity: The Politics of Vaccination in Twentieth-Century America</em> (Berkeley: University of California Press, 2006); Donald A. Henderson, <em>Smallpox: The Death of a Disease</em> (New York: Prometheus, 2009); Paul A. Offit, <em>Vaccinated: One Man's Quest to Defeat the World's Deadliest Diseases</em> (Washington, DC: Smithsonian Books, 2007).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT9">
                     <p>Andrew J. Wakefield <em>et al.</em>, “Ileal-Lymphoid-Nodular Hyperplasia, Non-specific Colitis, and Pervasive Developmental
                        Disorder in Children,” <em>The Lancet</em> 351 (1998): 637–41.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT10">
                     <p>See, e.g., Seth Mnookin, <em>The Panic Virus: A True Story of Medicine, Science, and Fear</em> (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2012).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT11">
                     <p>Steven Salzberg, “Anti-vaccine Movement Causes Worst Measles Epidemic in 20 Years,”
                        <em>Forbes</em>, 1 February 2015. (All online news sources were accessed through the Access World
                        News database.) On the outbreak, see Jennifer Zipprich, “Measles Outbreak – California,
                        December 2014–February 2015,” <em>Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report</em> 64, no. 6 (2015): 153–54.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT12">
                     <p>Lucy Westcott, “Toddler Dies from Measles in Berlin's Worst Outbreak in a Decade,”
                        <em>Newsweek</em>, 14 February 2015.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT13">
                     <p>Laura Parker, “The Anti-Vaccine Generation: How Movement against Shots Got Its Start,”
                        <em>National Geographic</em>, 6 February 2015.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT14">
                     <p>Rong-Gong Lin II and Sandra Poindexter, “California Schools' Risks Rise as Vaccinations
                        Drop,” <em>Los Angeles Times</em>, 29 March 2009.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT15">
                     <p>Clyde Haberman, “A Discredited Vaccine Study's Continuing Impact on Public Health,”
                        <em>New York Times</em>, 1 February 2015.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT16">
                     <p>Laura June, “Why Is an Anti-Vaccine Documentary by a Proven Quack Being Taken Seriously?”
                        <em>New York Magazine</em>, 22 March 2016; Maggie Mallon, “Tribeca Film Festival Will Screen Highly Questionable
                        Anti-Vaccine Film,” <em>Glamour</em>, 25 March 2016; Jacqueline Burt Cote, “New Anti-Vax Documentary Could Put Kids' Lives
                        in Danger,” <em>The Stir</em>, 24 March 2016.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT17">
                     <p>Daniel Kreps, “Robert De Niro, Tribeca Film Fest Pull Anti-Vaxxer Documentary,” <em>Rolling Stone</em>, 27 March 2016.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT18">
                     <p>June, “Why Is an Anti-Vaccine Documentary.”</p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT19">
                     <p>Emily Willingham, “Robert De Niro Turns Scientist, Tribeca Pulls Wakefield Video,”
                        <em>Forbes</em>, 26 March 2016.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT20">
                     <p>Mary Elizabeth Williams, “Anti-Vaxxer's Tribeca Triumph,” <em>Salon</em>, 23 March 2016.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT21">
                     <p>Elena Conis, <em>Vaccine Nation: America's Changing Relationship with Immunization</em> (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2015), 116–29.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT22">
                     <p>For a detailed analysis of Wakefield's work, see Mark A. Largent, <em>Vaccine: The Debate in Modern America</em> (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2012), 94–135.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT23">
                     <p>Conis, <em>Vaccine Nation</em>, 143–44.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT24">
                     <p>Gerald E. Markowitz and David Rosner, <em>Deceit and Denial: The Deadly Politics of Industrial Pollution</em> (Berkeley: University of California Press, 2002); Susan E. Bell, <em>DES Daughters: Embodied Knowledge and the Transformation of Women's Health Politics</em> (Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2009).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT25">
                     <p>Conis, <em>Vaccine Nation</em>, 150–53.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT26">
                     <p>Elena Conis, “‘Do We Really Need Hepatitis B on the Second Day of Life?’ Vaccination
                        Mandates and Shifting Representations of Hepatitis B,” <em>Journal of Medical Humanities</em> 32 (2011): 155–66; Robert Johnston, “Contemporary Anti-Vaccination Movements in Historical
                        Perspective,” in Robert Johnston, ed., <em>The Politics of Healing: Histories of Alternative Medicine in Twentieth-Century North
                           America</em> (New York: Routledge, 2004), 259–86.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT27">
                     <p>Conis, <em>Vaccine Nation</em>, 179–202.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT28">
                     <p>Largent, <em>Vaccine</em>, 157–64.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT29">
                     <p>SB-277, c. 35 (2015).</p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT30">
                     <p>On DDT's history, see Thomas Dunlap, <em>DDT: Scientists, Citizens, and Public Policy</em> (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1981); David Kinkela, <em>DDT and the American Century: Global Health, Environmental Politics, and the Pesticide
                           That Changed the World</em> (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2011).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT31">
                     <p>Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, adopted 22 May 2001, entered
                        into force 17 May 2004; see <a href="http://chm.pops.int/" target="_blank">http://chm.pops.int/</a>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT32">
                     <p>See, e.g., Henry I. Miller, “Is There a Place for DDT?” <em>New York Times</em>, 7 August 2003, A23.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT33">
                     <p>Walecia Konrad, “Sleeping with the Enemy (Bed Bugs),” <em>New York Times</em>, 11 July 2009, B6.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT34">
                     <p>Owen Dyer, “Zika Virus Spreads across Americas as Concerns Mount over Birth Defects,”
                        <em>BMJ</em> 351 (2015): h6983; World Health Organization [WHO], <em>Zika Situation Report: Neurological Syndrome and Congenital Anomalies</em> (Geneva: WHO, 2016).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT35">
                     <p>Udani Samarasekera and Marcia Triunfol, “Concern over Zika Virus Grips the World,”
                        <em>Lancet</em> 387 (2016): 521–24.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT36">
                     <p>Andrew Pollack, “New Weapon to Fight Zika: The Mosquito,” <em>New York Times</em>, 30 January 2016, <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/31/business/new-weapon-to-fight-zika-the-mosquito.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/31/business/new-weapon-to-fight-zika-the-mosquito.html</a>; Betsy McKay, Reed Johnson, and Rogerio Jelmayer, “Fighting the ‘Cockroach of Mosquitoes,’”
                        <em>Wall Street Journal</em>, 12 February 2016, <a href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/fighting-the-cockroach-of-mosquitoes-1455238636" target="_blank">https://www.wsj.com/articles/fighting-the-cockroach-of-mosquitoes-1455238636</a>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT37">
                     <p>Samarasekera and Triunfol, “Concern over Zika”; WHO, <em>Zika Situation Report</em>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT38">
                     <p>Pollack, “New Weapon to Fight Zika.”</p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT39">
                     <p>Justin Worland, “Why Bringing Back DDT to Fight Zika Mosquitoes Could Backfire,” <em>Time</em>, 3 February 2016, <a href="http://time.com/4205214/zika-virus-ddt-mosquitoes/" target="_blank">http://time.com/4205214/zika-virus-ddt-mosquitoes/</a>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT40">
                     <p>Glenn Garvin, “The Deadliest Insect in Human History: From Yellow Fever to Dengue
                        to Zika, One Mosquito Species Has Been a Ruthless Killer,” <em>Los Angeles Times</em>, 14 February 2016, A3.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT41">
                     <p>Robyn Dixon, “Biological Weapons Target Zika,” <em>Los Angeles Times</em>, 8 February 2016, A6; Pollack, “New Weapon to Fight Zika.”
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT42">
                     <p>Worland, “Why Bringing Back DDT.”</p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT43">
                     <p>Andrew Revkin, “As WHO Declares Zika a Global Health Emergency, a Look at the World's
                        Failed Mosquito Policies,” <em>New York Times</em>, 1 February 2016, <a href="https://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2016/02/01/as-w-h-o-weighs-zika-as-emergency-a-look-at-the-worlds-failed-mosquito-policies/" target="_blank">https://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2016/02/01/as-w-h-o-weighs-zika-as-emergency-a-look-at-the-worlds-failed-mosquito-policies/</a>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT44">
                     <p>Andrew Jacobs, “Brazil Pushes Public to Do Its Part,” <em>New York Times</em>, 14 February 2016, <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/15/world/americas/brazil-pushes-public-to-do-its-part-in-fighting-zika-spread.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/15/world/americas/brazil-pushes-public-to-do-its-part-in-fighting-zika-spread.html</a>; Alexandra Zavis, “Brazil Has Battled the Zika Mosquito Before,” <em>Los Angeles Times</em>, 14 August 2016, A1.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT45">
                     <p>Sabrina Tavernise, “Why Can't We Get Rid of Mosquitoes Entirely?” <em>New York Times</em>, 14 April 2016, <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/14/insider/why-cant-we-get-rid-of-mosquitoes-entirely.html" target="_blank">https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/14/insider/why-cant-we-get-rid-of-mosquitoes-entirely.html</a>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT46">
                     <p>Zavis, “Brazil Has Battled.”</p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT47">
                     <p>On DDT's place among consumer goods for disease prevention, see David Oshinsky, <em>Polio: An American Story</em> (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), 3; Nancy Tomes, <em>The Gospel of Germs: Men, Women, and the Microbe in American Life</em> (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1999), 246. On agriculture, see J.L. Anderson,
                        <em>Industrializing the Corn Belt: Agriculture, Technology, and the Environment</em> (Dekalb: Northern Illinois University Press, 2009).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT48">
                     <p>“DDT Outlook,” <em>Soap and Sanitary Chemicals</em> 20 (1944): 127–29, 147.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT49">
                     <p>Finis Dunaway, <em>Seeing Green: The Use and Abuse of American Environmental Images</em> (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2015), 24; James Whorton, <em>Before Silent Spring: Pesticides and Public Health in Pre-DDT America</em> (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1974).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT50">
                     <p>Edmund Russell, <em>War and Nature: Fighting Humans and Insects with Chemicals from World War I to Silent
                           Spring</em> (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2001); Whorton, <em>Before Silent Spring</em>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT51">
                     <p>Elena Conis, “DDT Disbelievers: Health and the New Economic Poisons in Georgia after
                        World War II,” <em>Southern Spaces</em>, 28 October 2016.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT52">
                     <p>US Department of Agriculture and US Public Health Service, “DDT … For Control of Household
                        Pests” (Washington, DC: Federal Security Agency, 1947); Dawn Biehler, <em>Pests in the City: Flies, Bedbugs, Cockroaches, and Rats</em> (Seattle: University of Washington Press, 2013), 91.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT53">
                     <p>F. Barrows Colton, “Your New World of Tomorrow,” <em>National Geographic Magazine</em>, October 1945, 385–410.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT54">
                     <p>See, e.g., “Protect your children against disease-carrying insects!” (print ad, 1947),
                        Chemical Heritage Foundation, Phil Allegretti Pesticide Collection, Object ID 2014.010.114.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT55">
                     <p>Margaret Humphreys, <em>Malaria: Poverty, Race, and Public Health in the United States</em> (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2001), 151.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT56">
                     <p>Humphreys, <em>Malaria</em>, 110–12, 149–50.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT57">
                     <p>Humphreys, <em>Malaria</em>, 140–41.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT58">
                     <p>Frank M. Snowden, <em>The Conquest of Malaria: Italy, 1900–1962</em> (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2006), 201.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT59">
                     <p>Christopher J. Bosso, <em>Pesticides and Politics: The Life Cycle of a Public Issue</em> (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1987), 63; National Archives at Atlanta
                        [NARA], RG 442 (CDC), Historical Files, 66A0163, Box 1, Folder: Economic Poisons,
                        Trend Report: Economic Poisons, 1955.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT60">
                     <p>Anderson, <em>Industrializing the Corn Belt</em>, 23, 31, 64; Bosso, <em>Pesticides and Politics</em>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT61">
                     <p>Anderson, <em>Industrializing the Corn Belt</em>, 17; “Use of DDT around Dairies in Florida Proves Success,” <em>Valley Morning Star</em> (Harlingen, Texas), 9 December 1945, 19; “DDT Legislation before Congress,” <em>New York Times</em>, 4 December 1945, 46.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT62">
                     <p>Bosso, <em>Pesticides and Politics</em>, 64; Biehler, <em>Pests in the City</em>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT63">
                     <p>David A. Hounshell and John Kenly Smith, <em>Science and Corporate Strategy: Du Pont R &amp; D, 1902–1980</em> (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1992), 453; Benjamin Ross and Steven Amter,
                        <em>The Polluters: The Making of Our Chemically Altered Environment</em> (New York: Oxford University Press, 2010), 57.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT64">
                     <p>Anderson, <em>Industrializing the Corn Belt</em>, 19; Frederick Rowe Davis, <em>Banned: A History of Pesticides and the Science of Toxicology</em> (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2014), 116–52.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT65">
                     <p>National Communicable Disease Center Malaria Eradication Program, “DDT in Malaria
                        Control and Eradication,” 1969, WHO Archives, Folder V2 / 372 / 7 Relations with the
                        Commission on Pesticides of the U.S. Department of Health Education and Welfare.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT66">
                     <p>Nancy Langston, <em>Toxic Bodies: Hormone Disruptors and the Legacy of DES</em> (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2010), 83, 85.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT67">
                     <p>John Opie, <em>Nature's Nation: An Environmental History of the United States</em> (Fort Worth: Harcourt Brace College Publishers, 1998), 413.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT68">
                     <p>Dunaway, <em>Seeing Green</em>, 31.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT69">
                     <p>Rachel Carson, <em>Silent Spring: Fortieth Anniversary Edition</em> (New York: Houghton Mifflin, 2002), 2.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT70">
                     <p>See, e.g., Brenda Eskenazi <em>et al.</em>, “The Pine River Statement: Human Health Consequences of DDT Use,” <em>Environmental Health Perspectives</em> 117 (2009): 1359–67; Lino Del Pup <em>et al.</em>, “Endocrine Disruptors and Female Cancer,” <em>Oncology Reports</em> 34 (2015): 3–11; Anne-Mary Lewis-Mikhael <em>et al.</em>, “Organochlorine Pesticides and Prostate Cancer: Is There an Association? A Meta-analysis
                        of Epidemiological Evidence,” <em>Cancer Causes and Control</em> 26 (2015): 1375–92.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT71">
                     <p>Elena Conis, “Debating the Health Effects of DDT: Thomas Jukes, Charles Wurster, and
                        the Fate of an Environmental Pollutant,” <em>Public Health Reports</em> 125 (2010): 337–42.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT72">
                     <p>Davis, <em>Banned</em>, 219.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT73">
                     <p>Davis, <em>Banned</em>, 188.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT74">
                     <p>Bruno Latour, <em>We Have Never Been Modern</em> (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1993), 10.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT75">
                     <p>Michelle Murphy, <em>Sick Building Syndrome and the Problem of Uncertainty: Environmental Politics, Technoscience,
                           and Women Workers</em> (Durham: Duke University Press, 2006), 18. See also Gregg Mitman, Michelle Murphy,
                        and Christopher Sellers, eds., <em>Landscapes of Exposure: Knowledge and Illness in Modern Environments</em> (<em>Osiris</em> [2<sup>nd</sup> ser.] 19; Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2004); Linda Nash, <em>Inescapable Ecologies: A History of Environment, Disease, and Knowledge</em> (Berkeley: University of California Press, 2006).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT76">
                     <p>Errol Barnett, “New Cases of Zika Virus in China, Australia,” CNN Newsroom, 11 February
                        2016, <a href="http://edition.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1602/11/cnr.20.html" target="_blank">http://edition.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1602/11/cnr.20.html</a>.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT77">
                     <p>David Bishai and Clive Shiff, “Zika: A Wake-Up Call,” <em>Baltimore Sun</em>, 23 February 2016, 13A.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT78">
                     <p>Paul A. Offit, <em>Deadly Choices: How the Anti-Vaccine Movement Threatens Us All</em> (New York: Basic Books, 2011), 152.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT79">
                     <p>Harry Collins, <em>Are We All Scientific Experts Now?</em> (Malden: Polity Press, 2014).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT80">
                     <p>Dorothy Porter, <em>Health, Civilization, and the State: A History of Public Health from Ancient to Modern
                           Times</em> (London: Routledge, 1999), 57; Adriana Petryna, <em>Life Exposed: Biological Citizens after Chernobyl</em> (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2002).
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT81">
                     <p>McKay <em>et al.</em>, “Fighting the ‘Cockroach of Mosquitoes.’
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT82">
                     <p>Yahoo Health, “People Who Skip Vaccinations ‘Incredibly Selfish’ Experts Say,” <em>Yahoo News</em>, 23 January 2015.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT83">
                     <p>Patrick Finney, “International History, Theory and the Origins of World War II,” in
                        Geoffrey Roberts, ed., <em>The History and Narrative Reader</em> (New York: Routledge, 2001), 400.
                     </p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT84">
                     <p>Conis, “DDT Disbelievers.”</p>
                  </li>
                  <li id="NT85">
                     <p>See, e.g., Conis, <em>Vaccine Nation</em>, 131–58.
                     </p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </section>
         </section>
      </article>
   </body>
</html>