<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf67" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="67"><div class="pc pc67 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x45 h5 y3e4 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y1bb ff1d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3eb ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y645 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y646 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1c1 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">Models <span class="_ _4f"> </span>111 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13b">say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, a geometric street map and a topological rail map. Indeed, a street map </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws611">without indications of railway or station locations and a topological rail </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsae">map without indications of street locations cannot be combined to plan a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws745">journey without additional information, such as an independent knowl-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws799">edge of where rail stations are located. Likewise, maps with different scales </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79a">or projection schemes require additional knowledge of those variables and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73c">how to translate between them if one is to combine information from the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">maps successfully<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Failure to obser<span class="_ _2f"></span>ve such strictures can result in errors. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y205 ff1d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">6.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls12">Blueprints </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b3 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a">Architectural blueprints have a great deal in common with maps. They are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b4 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2aa">two-dimensional representations of three-dimensional physical phenom-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws764">ena and are usually drawn at least roughly to scale. Geometric relations in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79b">the blueprint thus usually reflect similar relations in the building, at least </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79c">along the horizontal axes. Of course, blueprints are normally constructed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74e">before the building is built, while maps are usually drawn to depict exist-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79d">ing geographical features. But this need not be the case: one can construct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws255">a blueprint of an existing building, and planners create maps of cities and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">road systems that are not yet built. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y168 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79e">Also like maps, architectural blueprints employ special conventional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79f">symbols to note standard elements of their domain: doors, windows, elec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws300">trical wiring, lighting, plumbing, and the like (fig. 6.7). They may also indi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e5">cate the locations of appliances and furnishings. Unlike the lines used for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a0">walls, these conventional symbols do not always mirror the geometry of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46d">the features they represent. A symbol for an electrical outlet, for example, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a1">is proportionally larger in comparison to the representation of the wall it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a2">housed in than is the actual outlet to the wall, and the arc used in the sym-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws109">bol for a door indicates the direction in which it opens and not a curved </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a3">object. Likewise, the different shading patterns used to indicate materials </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b3">(wood, metal) are not spatially accurate representations of objects but con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ventions that indicate the materials used. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y174 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a4">Blueprints, like maps, employ labels. But they also employ a special sort </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a5">of label not always found in maps: labels indicating dimensions. Indeed, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a6">while blueprints are often scale drawings that preserve geometric propor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a3">tions, they need not be drawn in this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. A hand sketch noting dimen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1dc">sions and features contains the information needed by the architect and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws1a7">the builder<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y17a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a7">Much architectural design is now done using computer-aided design </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72e">(CAD) software (figs. 6.8 and 6.9). The “deep” representational system used </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
