<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf6c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="6c"><div class="pc pc6c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xd3 h5 y1ba ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y277 ff1d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5f7 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _c5"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bc ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3f h5 y699 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">116 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 6 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3">to the processor chip by an interpreter or compiler<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The programmer may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f7">be quite ignorant of the machine language of the hardware she is program-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">ming for<span class="_ _2d"></span>.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y201 ff1d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">6.5 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Computer Models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y160 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws250">Computer programs can also be used <span class="ff1f ws0">as</span> models of noncomputational pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1af ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b8">cesses. The evening weather report, for example, might display weather </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b0 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b9">maps for the next day or the next week. These are generated by programs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b1 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ba">that model meteorological phenomena and generate predictive simulations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b2 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33c">of how they might evolve: for example, how a storm will track, or how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b3 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws398">colliding fronts will produce high winds and precipitation. Researchers in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b4 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws550">computational neuroscience, artificial intelligence, and cognitive psychol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bb">ogy use programs to test hypotheses about the mechanisms underlying </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79">neural and cognitive phenomena. And economists use computers to model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bc">the economic consequences of possibilities such as lowering the prime </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">lending rate or a change in the oil supply<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1b9 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws581">T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o build such a program, one must begin with a set of hypotheses about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ff">what objects, properties, relations, and processes are relevant to the dynam-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5dd">ics of the real-world phenomenon to be modeled. One then creates com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bd">putational stand-ins for these variables, in the form of data structures and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7be">algorithms that are designed to mirror the relevant properties of the content </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bf">domain. A model of billiard ball collisions, for example, would need to have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61c">some representation of the dimensions of the table, as well as the locations, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">dimensions, and momenta of the balls; and a sophisticated model might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c1">represent further factors such as the coefficients of elasticity for the balls </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c2">and the sides of the table, and the coefficient of friction for the table surface. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2be">It would also require algorithms for computing trajectories over some quan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws248">tized representation of time, for the effects of friction, and laws of collision. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c5">Such a model would be idealized in a number of ways. Real pool tables have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">surfaces that are not perfectly regular<span class="_ _2d"></span>. A gust of wind might affect the real-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7c3">world kinematics of a shot, or someone might interfere with a ball in play<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c4">The program may not have a way of modeling the effects of spin (“Eng-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws126">lish”) or the chaotic effects of many-body gravitational variables (which, I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c5">have heard it claimed, can produce macroscopic effects with a fairly small </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27b">number of collisions). It may also not be prepared to handle the differences </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c6">in high-impact collisions, where structural features of the balls become </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws774">important, as they may significantly deform under impact or indeed lose </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1db">structural integrity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. These features are also relevant to the scientific models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">themselves on which such a computer model is ultimately based. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
