<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf6d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="6d"><div class="pc pc6d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff1d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x70 h5 y200 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1c h5 y26b ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y601 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1 h5 y26d ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x40 h5 yfe ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y69a ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1f h5 y69b ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">Models <span class="_ _4f"> </span>117 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff1d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">6.6 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Features of Models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b">Models are cognitive tools that allow ready understanding of some set of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws713">features of the objects or systems they are models <span class="ff1f ws0">of</span>. Models can be ana-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b9">lyzed into parts or aspects that correspond to various features of the target </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c7">system: objects, properties, relations, processes, and transformations. They </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws150">thus provide a means of representing these features and reasoning about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4aa">them. A model does not simply represent one fact about an object or sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a0">tem but provides a framework for representing various sorts of facts about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws377">them, and reasoning about these. A model is thus not itself simply a rep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f0">resentation of an object or system but a kind of <span class="ff1f">system for representation</span><span class="ls1e ws5ab"> of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">things about them. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y208 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c8">It is particularly important to note that the kind of understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b4">afforded by models is tied to the ways they are <span class="ff1f ws0">systems</span><span class="ls11 ws7c9">. And in this way </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ca">models are unlike lists of propositions. If you have a list of propositions and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cb">delete one of them, you may lose some ability to infer things that depend </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70c">on that proposition, but all the others are retained. But if you delete a road </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b4">or rail connection from a map or remove the labels, the ability to use the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cc">map as a way of navigating from one point to another is more globally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b8">impaired. If you lose information about what kind of projection it is, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws277">what the various sorts of symbols and lines stand for<span class="_ _2"></span>, the map cannot be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13d">used for all the same purposes and may become utterly useless as a map. If </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d5">you delete a section of code from a program, it may cease to operate at all or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cd">result in vastly different behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. If you alter the meaning of one theoreti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cf">cal term in a scientific theory or alter one of the laws, you generally must </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws612">make a host of other alterations as well, or else the resulting theory will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">cease to have the same fit with the phenomena it is a theory <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff1f">of<span class="ff1e ls0">. </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y216 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7ce">Models are useful for understanding in part because they provide a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws249">stand-in for the target object or system in which a certain set of its features </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cf">is made available for inspection, reasoning, simulation, and manipulation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws621">in a fashion that is readily grasped. This almost invariably involves ideal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d0">izing away from other features of the real-world system being modeled </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e2">to reduce complexity and hence cognitive load. Of course, there will be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14f">problems for which the things that have been idealized away from will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d1">matter<span class="_ _2"></span>, and this will affect the aptness of the model for thinking and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ac">reasoning about such cases. The <span class="ff1f ws0">way</span><span class="ls11 ws7d2"> features or aspects of a real-world </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d3">system are modeled may also diverge from their real nature, and this can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws344">affect the aptness of a model as well. Often, such distorting idealizations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d4">make the system easier to grasp, and there can be a trade-off between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d5">ease of understanding, reasoning, and calculation on the one hand and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
