<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b"><div class="pc pcb w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5f ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x13 h5 y13f ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y140 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y141 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x10 h5 y142 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x65 h5 y143 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1e h5 y144 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x74 h5 y145 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6e h5 y146 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff9 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">4 <span class="_ _36"> </span>Chapter 1 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57">language, some of which, in the end, might have important consequences </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">even for our understanding of statements and their truth values. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58">My point is in a similar vein. Briefly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it might be put something like this: </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws59">Philosophers have placed particular emphasis on a number of topics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5a">about thoughts and language, each of which is in itself quite respectable: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b">the semantic values of concepts and words, the truth conditions of judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c">ments and sentences, the justification of beliefs, and the forms of inference </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30">that are truth preserving. Comparatively little attention has been given to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d">a topic of equal importance, one that might in the end have important </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e">implications for theories of semantics, truth, epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and reasoning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">as well. One name we might give this topic is <span class="ffb">understanding</span><span class="ls12 ws3c">, though what I </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">mean by that will have to emerge from the rest of the book. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5f">The ways we frame our questions in different areas of philosophy— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws60">semantics, truth theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, logic—tend to force the theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61">designed to answer them into particular molds. Questions about semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62">focus our attention on word-sized units: actual words in a natural language, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63">predicates in a logically regimented language, and individual concepts. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64">Questions about truth focus our attention on sentence-sized units: sen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65">tences, propositions, judgments, and beliefs. Questions about logic and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66">justification focus our attention on argument-sized units. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67">three differently sized units are related compositionally: Arguments are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68">formed out of sentence-sized units inserted into the slots of logical argu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69">ment forms. Sentence-sized units, in turn, are composed of word-sized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a">units inserted into slots of grammatical or logical forms. Units of each of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b">these sizes occur in language, thought, and logic. They are clearly there to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6c">be found in both natural languages and logically regimented systems, and I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d">think it not psychologically unrealistic to say that they are important units </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">of thought as well. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e">I do not object to treating word-sized, sentence-sized, and argument-sized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6f">units as being fundamentally important to semantics, truth, epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70">and logical reasoning; indeed, I think some of the questions of those dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71">ciplines can be satisfied <span class="ffb ws0">only</span> by theories framed in terms of such units, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72">even if those theories present an <span class="ffb ws0">idealized</span><span class="ls11 ws73"> picture of thought (and even of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74">language). My concern, rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, is twofold. First, <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ffb ws0">collectively<span class="ffa ws74">, our philosophi-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75">cal theories form, perhaps not quite a comprehensive <span class="ffb ws0">theory</span><span class="ls12 ws76"> of thought </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77">and language, but at least a kind of <span class="ffb ws0">attractor</span><span class="ls11 ws78"> toward a particular type of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79">theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, or perhaps a set of constraints on what such a theory would have to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a">look like to accommodate and unify the insights of accounts of semantics, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b">truth, justification, and reasoning. The basic assumption, which we might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c">call the “standard view<span class="_ _2d"></span>,” is that accounts of thought, understanding, and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
