<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf72" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="72"><div class="pc pc72 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x25 h5 y13f ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d0"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2d2 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4a h5 y6b3 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2db ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _6b"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">122 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws709">relational properties. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou can “build” different structures in your imagina-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion, conforming to the principles learned from the modeling kit. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdc">Again, there is a good deal of individual difference in how well different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fe">people can perform such an exercise. One person can do it successfully only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ff">if there is a single carbon atom, another can do it with chains of two or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ba">three, and so on. What the upper bounds might be is an empirical question. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cb">There are probably savants who can imagine much larger molecular struc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws800">tures than you or I, and each of us would likely be able to expand our upper </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws440">bound through practice; but it might be that a DNA molecule would prove </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws309">too large and complex for anyone to imagine in detail. But this is an obser-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66e">vation about <span class="ff24">performance limits</span> rather than <span class="ff24 ws0">competence</span><span class="ls11 ws1b5">, similar to the fact </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c7">that there is some limit to the size of sentences you are able to parse, even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc">though you have the necessary grammatical competence required. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws114">understand the sentences “Noah was the son of Lamech” and “Noah was </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws143">the son of the son of Methuselah,” and you understand the iterative nature </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws801">of the “son of …” construction, but at some point you lose track of the gen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws802">erations because you have exceeded some kind of limit on storage or pars-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws803">ing ability<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Similarly<span class="_ _2"></span>, you might be able to concretely imagine one or two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44b">carbon atoms and what they are bonded with, but there is some upper limit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws485">to how many you can imagine concretely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, though you are perfectly capable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73">of imagining and thinking about the properties of any suitably small por-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tion of a very large molecule. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws765">How should we describe what you are doing when you perform a task </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a5">such as imagining a chain of two carbon atoms with hydrogen atoms occu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws804">pying the remaining positions? It seems natural to speak of this as “build-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61a">ing (or using) a <span class="ff24 ws0">mental</span> model” of such a molecule. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou substitute an oxygen </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws694">molecule or an OH group in one of the slots, and you have produced a men-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws805">tal model of a different type of molecule. But something deeper is going </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cc">on as well. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>our ability to imagine particular types of molecules and per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws655">form specific transformations on them—structural possibilities and trans-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22e">formations that correspond to those afforded by the modeling kit (and, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws547">assuming it has been well designed, to the ways molecules can actually be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws806">configured)—suggests that you have internalized the structural principles </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c1">and possibilities that were engineered into the external model, and you </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws807">now have a general and flexible capacity that you previously lacked: to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff24 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb">model molecular configurations in your mind<span class="ff22 ls11 ws392">. W<span class="_ _2e"></span>ith the external model, the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d3">mechanical properties of the pieces—the number and locations of the slots </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws512">in the balls into which struts can be inserted, the lengths of the struts— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17c">enforce the “rules” for their combination and generate a possibility space </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38">of possible model molecules. If your purely mental modeling matches the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
