<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf75" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="75"><div class="pc pc75 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x2e h5 y1c3 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb9 h5 y263 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1c5 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd h5 y6e3 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5f2 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6f h5 y6e4 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y6e5 ff23 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e6 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">125 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e">learn the ways the pieces fit together<span class="_ _2d"></span>. And, having done so, she can inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws272">nalize what she has learned so as to be able to think about the same sorts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws555">of structures “off-line”—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, when the kit has been put away for the night </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81f">and her busy mind is resisting bedtime. In fact, the process of learning to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7b4">use the kit very likely involved the formation of a mental model of it as a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd2">system of balls and struts that can fit together in various ways as well, even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b2">though <span class="ff24 ws0">that</span> model subsequently is little used or perhaps is used uncon-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws820">sciously to guide our hands as we construct models we <span class="ff24">think of</span><span class="ls12 ws44c"> in terms of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">the target system of molecules. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c3">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e learn about systematic regularities we find in a wide range of things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws821">we experience, use these regularities to organize our subsequent interac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws467">tions with them, and think about them off-line in ways faithful to their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws501">actual behavior when they are not present. The formation of mental mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws122">els on the basis of perception and interaction is actually a ubiquitous form </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws300">of human learning. The sole difference in the internalization of an external </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws166">model is that the property of being a model <span class="ff24 ws0">of</span> something else (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, mole-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws485">cules)—perhaps something we have never directly perceived and interacted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws822">with—is transferred from the external model to the mental model. Starting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a9">with external models that are then internalized helps us to get a basic grasp </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63b">of the idea of a mental model by analogy with the more familiar examples </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws762">of external models; but not all mental models are formed in this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77e">the relationship probably really works in the opposite direction: the ability </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws715">to work with external models likely depends on the ability to form and use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws823">mental models. Indeed, many advocates of mental models believe that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws385">capacity to form mental models originally arose as a way of internalizing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">regularities encountered in bodily engagement with the world. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsef">Mental models can also be formed in other ways. As I have already sug-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d5">gested, some are formed through experience without an external model. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17">Some are developmentally canalized. Some are formed through processes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws824">of verbal learning, social interaction, or explicit theory formation. In the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ensuing sections, I describe examples of each. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y21b ff23 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">7.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">A Mental Model of My House </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20">T<span class="_ _2"></span>ry the following exercise. Think of a physical environment you are inti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws28a">mately familiar with. For purposes of comparison, I will use the house I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c7">grew up in—a place I have not been inside for perhaps thirty years, though </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws372">I lived there from ages two to seventeen. It has often struck me how vividly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67c">I can imagine that house. And when I say “imagine,” I do not mean some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13a">thing like experiencing mental snapshots. What I have in mind is more like </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
