<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf76" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="76"><div class="pc pc76 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x84 h5 y292 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x24 h5 y556 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y601 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y162 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _50"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y163 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d2"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y337 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y6e7 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2b7 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">126 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac">a kind of situated spatial imagination: I can vividly imagine myself being <span class="ff24 ws0">in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29d">the house, in a given location, and have visual, proprioceptive, and some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c0">times tactile and olfactory imagery of the environment around me. I can, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws501">in my imagination, turn and move, and things come into view<span class="_ _2d"></span>. I can, as it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33b">were, <span class="ff24 ws0">explore</span> the house I once lived in. I don’t mean anything spooky here; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64a">I am not talking about some kind of astral projection. I am talking about an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws825">exploration of things that are somehow stored in memory<span class="_ _2"></span>, in a form that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws541">needs to be explored and exploited, often in a fashion not unlike what I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws680">would do if I were physically present, <span class="ff24 ls11 ws35">only by interacting not with the house </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff24 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">itself but with something in my own mind and brain<span class="ff22 ls11 ws826">. So let us try to make the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws827">case for this in a way that, I hope, at least the readers with forms of imagin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ing somewhat like mine can replicate. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws828">Ask yourself: what color are (were) the living room curtains? For me, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws174">both a verbal answer (“red”) and a visual image occur so quickly that I sus-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws829">pect I have more than one way in which I have committed this information </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws71c">to memory<span class="_ _2"></span>. But if I ask myself about their texture, or how they were hung, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws232">or how many panels there were, I find that the process of “recollection” def-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3db">initely requires a good deal more imagination, and very likely some deal of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff24 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">reconstruction<span class="ff22 ws6f3">. For example, in thinking about the texture, I imagine myself </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff24 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">feeling<span class="ff22 ws6db"> the curtains as well as looking at them. Perhaps some of this is based </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws361">on stored episodic memories of times I touched them as a child. (Indeed, in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">some sense it must be based on that.) But I can also make myself imagine </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27">handling them in any fashion I can handle curtains—drawing them open </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82a">or shut, pulling them outward, lifting them off their hooks (ah—in think-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82b">ing about this, I recall that they were on those hooks that get pulled by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdc">drawcords!), and so on. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o some extent, the parameters within which I can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22">imagine those curtains reflect the actual ways I did interact, or could have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">interacted, with them. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a1">Now<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in one sense, this seems quite in line with the idea that cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e">is based in capacities for bodily engagement with the world. But it is also in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82c">tension with the most extreme form of that view: that cognition takes place </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fb">only through actual bodily engagement with the world, without features of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws491">the world being stored in the mind. Indeed, for me to be able to imagine </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ba">interactions that supply some of the same sorts of information as analogous </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82d">interactions through the body<span class="_ _2d"></span>, there would seem to have to be <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ff24 ws0">something </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f7">stored in my mind that echoes the affordances I once found in the things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">I am remembering. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c2">I can also do other things in imagining my childhood home. T<span class="_ _2"></span>ry this: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f">ask yourself how many electrical outlets there were in your home (or envi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsce">ronment of choice). What happens in your mind when you try to answer </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
