<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf77" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="77"><div class="pc pc77 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6e8 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x58 h5 y1bc ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xaa h5 y36b ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e9 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _56"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x40 h5 y6ea ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6eb ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x79 h5 y2b0 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">127 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82e">this question? For me it involves a kind of visual or spatial imagining in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82f">which I feel myself present at each moment in some particular position </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2db">and orientation within the familiar room and move around it, as though </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws830">focusing my gaze from place to place and noting the features I am looking </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws174">for<span class="_ _2d"></span>. What I am, in effect, imagining is walking around the living room, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66a">dining room, the bedrooms, looking for outlets, and noting and counting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws14">as I go. Phenomenologically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it has a great deal in common with what I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76d">would do if I were really exploring a room I was present in. But there is, of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21">course, a crucial difference: I am not bodily present in that room while I am </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws349">doing it. I can do the same thing with any of a variety of other features of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws570">the room—the number and configurations of windows or radiators, the size </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws795">of the doorways, the types of stones in the mantel, the flooring, and so on. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws831">I should note that I fully expect the results of such an exercise to be quite </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws832">fallible. Some might be fallible in the ways one would expect specifically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws833">for episodic memories. I might reconstruct the room as being larger than </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16a">it actually was because many of my memories might have been from the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws297">perspective of the much smaller body I had as a child. But others might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ba">be fallible in ways that we expect more of a <span class="ff24 ws0">reconstruction</span><span class="ls11 ws834"> of details from </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ac">something more abstract. But a reconstruction from <span class="ff24 ws0">what</span><span class="ls11 ws1c7">? The answer that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">seems to suggest itself here is something like an abstract, schematic model, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73c">perhaps analogous to the information in the data used by an architectural </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws286">design program. This answer particularly suggests itself when the imagina-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws430">tive task results in thoughts that are vague or blurry<span class="_ _2"></span>. My mind imposes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff24 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5a">some kind<span class="ff22 ls11 ws5e6"> of casing around the windows; but if I am to be truly honest, I </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws664">have little idea what the contours of that casing were. I remember a few of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d8">the details of the masonry around the fireplace in detail, the rough width </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4be">of the grouting between stones, and some vague textures; but beyond that, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws835">my memory of the hearth is something like a blank template waiting to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws114">be filled in. I remember that several of the stairs to the second floor were </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws836">visible from the living room, and the rest disappeared behind the wall and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws837">ceiling, but I could not tell you how many without reconstruction that goes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">beyond remembering or exploring what is implicit in memory<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws838">Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>et all of this still suggests that the basis of my knowledge of my child-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws499">hood home comes not in the form of episodic or propositional memories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws839">alone but in the form of some kind of mental model (or models) of it, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83a">of such a sort that I can explore them—and perhaps explore them most </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c">aptly—through an imaginary recapitulation of the operations I would have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">performed to collect the same information if I were bodily present in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83b">actual room. And, as I assume that in so doing I am not interacting with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b6">anything <span class="ff24 ws0">outside</span><span class="ls11 ws83c"> mind, brain, and body<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it would seem to follow that there </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
