<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c"><div class="pc pcc w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x79 h5 y151 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x49 h5 y152 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws7d"> <span class="_ _7"> </span><span class="ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _37"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y153 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8 h5 y154 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y155 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x7b h5 y156 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7c h2 ya5 ff9 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">5 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Introduction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e">reasoning need to posit just these three types of units: word-sized concepts, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f">sentence-sized intentional states, and argument-sized inferences—a three-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80">tiered picture of the elements of our cognitive architecture whose predomi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">nant features are conspicuously modeled on those of a language. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81">Second, there are other important mental and linguistic phenomena </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82">that seem to require different types of fundamental units—at least if we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83">are to give an account of them that is psychologically realistic—and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84">entrenchment of the traditional theories about the aforementioned philo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85">sophical topics may tend to blind us to these other units. The particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86">type of unit I am concerned with is what I shall refer to as a <span class="ffb ls11">mental model of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffb fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87">a content domain<span class="ffa">. I shall argue that mental models are fundamental units of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88">understanding, in the sense that understanding comes in the form of mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d">els and in domain-sized chunks. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e <span class="ffb ws0">believe</span> propositions, but we <span class="ffb ws0">understand </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89">things such as Newtonian mechanics, the game of chess, and the etiquette </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a">for dining in a restaurant, and we do so through having mental models of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b">those domains. A great deal of what we think of as the semantic proper-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8c">ties of concepts is derived from properties of models in which they play a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8d">role; many inferences (particularly those involved in intuitive judgment </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8e">and in expert performance—what contemporary psychologists call System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f">1 thinking) are produced by model-based processes; and many of our beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90">are warranted only indirectly by being among the commitments of good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91">models. This is a familiar claim in psychology and in AI—indeed, in many </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws92">ways, the view I am presenting is very similar to Marvin Minsky’<span class="_ _2e"></span>s (1974, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws93">1985) frame-based account of the mind and stands in a complementary </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94">relationship to Philip Johnson-Laird’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1983) work on a slightly different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95">notion of a mental model—but it has found surprisingly little uptake even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96">in philosophy of mind, much less in philosophical accounts of epistemol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ogy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, semantics, or reasoning. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97">There are thus far the rudiments of two types of claims here. First, any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws98">viable account of cognitive architecture has to posit mental models as fun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws99">damental features of human cognition. Second, a model-based account </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c">of cognitive architecture ultimately has some revisionary implications for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9a">how we should understand meaning, knowledge, and truth as well. Any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9b">realistic model-based account of cognition, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, must also deal with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">the fact that we possess mental models of <span class="ffb">many different</span><span class="ls11 ws9d"> content domains, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9e">which we think and reason about in different ways. Indeed, if we under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9f">stand the world through models of particular domains, there <span class="ffb">have to be </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb">a very large number of such models, because the list of things we think </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa0">about is very long, and indeed open-ended. Perhaps we <span class="_ _34"></span><span class="ffb ws0">could<span class="ffa ls16 wsa1"> (someday<span class="_ _2"></span>, </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2">at Peirce’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s ideal end of inquir<span class="_ _2f"></span>y) come up with a single “super model” that </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
