<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf78" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="78"><div class="pc pc78 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x34 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yfd ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xe h5 y602 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x54 h5 y6ec ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y162 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y296 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8b h5 y6ed ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">128 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f3">is something <span class="ff24 ws0">within</span> mind, brain, and body that somehow stores some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws208">the relevant features and relations of the room itself. The accuracy and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws100">detail with which it does so are no doubt limited. But it is hard to see how<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws742">without this supposition, I can explain what happens when I think about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">my childhood home. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83d">I can, additionally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, do other things in imagination. I can imagine things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83e">that never happened taking place there. What would it have been like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83f">if Martin Luther King had visited us? I can certainly picture him there, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5dd">imagine how many steps it would take to rise from the sofa to meet him </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws840">at the entrance, and so on. What would the room have looked like had </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws268">the walls been painted black? How would things have looked different if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws841">a window had been walled off, or if the porch that adjoined the room had </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80">been enclosed and the doorway to it been made into a doorless arch? What </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws334">would the room have looked like from the perspective of a camera in a cor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66d">ner on the ceiling, or from above, if the ceiling were transparent? Imagin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws702">ing these things is <span class="ff24 ws0">almost</span> as easy as imagining things from perspectives that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws842">I probably actually did occupy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, which suggests that there are capacities at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">work that are quite different from episodic memory<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws688">Now try a slightly different exercise: imagine a blueprint of the first floor </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws833">of your house. For me, this takes a second or two to coalesce, but it hap-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a0">pens quite readily<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This is interesting, as what is present in a blueprint is a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws701">view we seldom if ever actually have of an actual physical house. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd0">learn to understand blueprints by actually exploring houses bodily from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cb">above. But it is a form of understanding that comes easily to many of us. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12a">And, at least for some of us, it feels easy and natural to go from a blueprint </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77a">perspective to the perspective of being situated in a room and vice versa. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b4">The information that is directly afforded in one is different from that of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws843">the other<span class="_ _2"></span>, but the mind seems quite adept at translating from one to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80">other<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Give me a blueprint of a house, and I can fairly quickly form a rough </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f">image of what the view would look like from a given position and angle. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">The ability to transition back and forth is surely a form of know-how and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cc">is closely connected with ways of being embedded bodily in the world. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws93">the “blueprint view” is not something we learn by flying above roofless </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8e">buildings. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, we have some kind of competence for moving back and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws337">forth between an abstract schematic understanding of a physical layout </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">and a sort of situated geometrical thinking that allows perspective taking. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws807">I think the best explanation for this is something like the following. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws699">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e encounter the world through situated, embodied, embedded cognition. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws844">But this cognition must have some mental <span class="ff24 ws0">form</span>—one or more representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws520">tional systems. The use of these systems is not limited to cognition through </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
