<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf79" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="79"><div class="pc pc79 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xbc h5 y3ab ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6ee ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6ef ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">129 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws708">online perception but can take the form of various kinds of imagining as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a">well. These are certainly not limited to perspectives that one has actually </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws845">occupied in the world; for example, I can always ask, “What would that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10e">look like if I moved over there?” (And, perhaps more surprisingly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, I can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48d">often quite routinely envision it.) Even more plainly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, they are not limited to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws817">perspectives I am presently in. But they are also not limited to perspectives </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws117">that I really could be in. Perhaps I can now be in a position to look down </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws401">(say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, from a crane or a hot air balloon) on a house under construction in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws657">ways most generations of my ancestors could not. But I cannot <span class="ff24 ws0">really</span><span class="ls16 ws846"> be in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws847">a position to “see” what the organelles of a cell look like from a position in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">between them—though I can certainly imagine it and use that imagining </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">to explore things about it. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws812">Let us now try to be a bit more careful and precise. I am suggesting that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ab">I have mental models of things such as my childhood home. (Perhaps there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws290">is a single integrated model of it in my mind, perhaps a constellation of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws848">models of parts and aspects of it that I can move between and coordinate.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b9">But by this I do not mean that “having a mental model” means that there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cc">“is something” in my mind that has the same geometric features as my </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws23b">house. That, indeed, would strike me as a category error<span class="_ _2"></span>. What, then, do I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">mean by “having a model” of my house in my mind? </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d2">One thing I mean is that there is something in my mind that allows me </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws70">to store and explore features of the house itself. And in these examples, I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws512">am particularly concerned with forms of “exploring features” that bear a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31">good deal of phenomenological resemblance to what I might do to extract </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a2">information about the house by interacting with it if I were physically situ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws586">ated within it. Phenomenologically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, I am imagining standing in a point in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fe">the room and looking in a direction, attending to the way the curtains are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30f">hung. This allows me to extract some of the same information about the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d8">room (assuming the imagining is accurate) that I would be able to extract </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29">were I actually situated in that fashion within the room. Phenomenologi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ed">cally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, I imagine turning 45 degrees to the right, and other features of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c3">room become available to my mind’<span class="_ _2"></span>s eye. These correspond to some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws849">the features that would become available for perceptual inspection were I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25d">really thus situated. Of course, the information extracted is accurate (and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23b">hence only “information” in the normative sense) only to the extent that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d1">my mental model of the room is accurate. It is surely finite in detail, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws670">likely inaccurate in some respects. Mental models are abstract and can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws122">erroneous. But for such things to take place at all there must be some kind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1aa">of correspondence between something present in my mind that I use in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84a">imagination (a mental model) and the real-world system I might explore </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
