<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf7a" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="7a"><div class="pc pc7a w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y352 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xdb h5 y3ab ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y408 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6f0 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">130 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d2">through bodily interaction. And the correspondence must be in some sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">systematic: when I imagine turning to the left and walking into the dining </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d0">room, the things I imagine encountering correspond to what I would actu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws613">ally see if I were walking through the house along a similar path. <span class="ff24 ws0">Something </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws255">in my mind must still be keeping track of the information I am not imag-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a">ining or attending to at the moment in order for it to be immediately and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws139">often seamlessly available to me when I call for it. The simplest explanation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b3">for this is that my mental model shares, at an abstract level, various fea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13d">tures of what it is a model <span class="ff24 ws0">of</span>, the house. Having already discussed external </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b3">architectural models such as blueprints and CAD software, it is tempting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84b">to suppose that this must include something analogous to blueprints and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws390">three-dimensional structural models representing layout and features inde-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">pendent of perspective. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bf">Let us now take it a step farther<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Suppose I am looking into some ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws92">tion about my house by looking through the house itself—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, I want to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84c">know how many outlets there are in the bedrooms. Consider how different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad">this task is if I am asking it with respect to my own house as compared with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws776">being deposited in the doorway of an unknown building. In the case of my </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84d">own house, I know the layout, I know where I am situated with respect to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84e">that layout, and I know which rooms are the bedrooms—and hence, implic-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws391">itly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the efficient routes to get there. In the case of an unknown house, there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd">is a lot I have to explore and figure out to know how to carry out the task. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws586">Having a mental model that supplies this needed background information </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84f">radically simplifies the task. Indeed, it seems to me that forming a mental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45d">model that includes information such as what rooms are bedrooms is a nec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36a">essary part of the task of counting the number of outlets in the bedrooms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">a previously unfamiliar house. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws327">Let us now turn to another form of imagination: creative imagination. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws143">Suppose I am an architect, and my task is to build a house that answers to a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c1">particular set of parameters. I do not do this by first slapping together walls </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws850">randomly and then exploring. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, I conceive the house imaginatively<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws384">imagine the consequences of my design, amend the design in light of these, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ef">draw up blueprints, and then turn it over to the builders. The architect may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58c">understand a house quite well and imagine it quite concretely before the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19">foundation has been laid. Blueprints, cardboard models, and CAD models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws851">may indeed assist in this process. But an architect with a detailed imagina-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse1">tion may well be able to conceive and design a home without these aids. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws301">The whole design process may take place with little or no bodily engage-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws852">ment with the thing being designed. Nor is this something confined to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws733">architecture: anything that is a product of design is imagined—and not just </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
