<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf7c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="7c"><div class="pc pc7c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y352 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y496 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa h5 y70d ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y70e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x3b h5 y70f ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x14 h5 y710 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y471 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _3a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6f0 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd3 h5 y711 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y712 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">132 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85d">of “chess-shaped understanding”—that is, one in which various types of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ac">mental representations and operations have the same abstract form as the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">principles of the game. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85e">Understanding chess seems to require a mental model of the game, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws809">which in turn involves a number of kinds of abilities. At the least, these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b9">would include a way of representing the board as a geometrically and topo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85f">logically describable space of possible piece positions, along with an under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71">standing that at most one piece may occupy a square at any one time, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws860">representational types for kinds of pieces and permissive rules for their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43b">movement, definition of an initial state, and rules for turn taking, capture, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c7">and ending states (checkmate, draw<span class="_ _2d"></span>, resignation). T<span class="_ _2"></span>ogether<span class="_ _2"></span>, these gener-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d0">ate a rich (yet also tightly constrained) possibility space, including possible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c4">game evolutions and possible states of play<span class="_ _2d"></span>. (Note that the possible legal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb">states of play are generated by game evolutions. Not all permutations of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws691">pieces in spaces are legal—something that the expert recognizes but the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69f">novice does not. A chess game cannot, for example, result in a configura-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion in which a player’<span class="_ _2"></span>s pawns occupy the row closest to him.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws523">The different components of understanding chess are tightly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, even con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54b">stituently<span class="_ _2d"></span>, inter<span class="_ _2f"></span>woven. My understanding of the piece type </div><div class="t m0 x63 h5 y1da ff22 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">KNIGHT<span class="fs2 ls18 ws294"> cannot </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1db ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws457">be separated from my understanding of the rules of movement. Change </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1dc ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws160">the rules for how a knight moves, and you have redefined the type </div><div class="t m0 x8e hb y503 ff22 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">KNIGHT </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y713 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84d">as well, and vice versa. Change the size or configuration of the board, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y714 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e">the move type </div><div class="t m0 x99 h5 y480 ff22 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">CASTLING<span class="fs2 ls7 ws1e"> must either be altered or lost entirely<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou can, to be </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y481 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c8">sure, generate <span class="ff24 ws0">alternative</span> games by starting with chess and changing things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y715 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws466">about the board, the pieces, or the rules. But what you have then is a new </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y716 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a0">game, one that requires a distinct mental model, albeit one that might be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y717 ff24 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">produced<span class="ff22"> by starting with a model of chess and making alterations. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y718 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws378">As I move beyond the baseline understanding of chess—being able to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y719 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d">play the game in accordance with the rules—I gradually begin to under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y71a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79f">stand things about tactics and strategy as well. These are normative rather </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y71b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws861">than permissive or constitutive in character<span class="_ _2"></span>, but they involve a subset of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y71c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3">sequences of moves permitted by the rules and ultimately guided by the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y71d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws210">definition of the end state of having the opposing player in checkmate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y71e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7af">(or<span class="_ _2"></span>, if that becomes impossible, forcing a draw). Both the baseline compe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y71f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91">tence and the increasing mastery of competitive play may start out guided </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y720 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws862">by <span class="ff24 ws0">explicit</span> rules and heuristics; but the more expert I become, the more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y721 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95">automatically they occur to me, and the more intuitive and less calculated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y722 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">they seem. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y723 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws863">While the typical way of learning chess probably still involves sitting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y724 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws136">across a physical chessboard from another player<span class="_ _2"></span>, understanding chess also </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
