<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf7d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="7d"><div class="pc pc7d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xdb h5 y150 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d4"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x6f h5 y56d ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y725 ff23 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y726 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y33b ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d5"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xdd h5 y299 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x65 h5 y29c ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xba h5 y727 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">133 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29">involves a significant abstraction from this context. I may learn the game </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws599">with a certain set of pieces, but I can recognize it as the same game if the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws864">pieces look much different. Just about anything can be used as a chess piece, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43d">so long as the players can remember what tokens are being used for which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b7">types of pieces. The <span class="ff24 ws0">typology</span> of chess pieces <span class="ff24 ws0">as</span><span class="ls11 ws865"> chess pieces is completely </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10b">independent from their physical characteristics. Indeed, the pieces and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e4">board need not even be physical particulars: there are many computer pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws257">grams for playing chess, and good players can play mental chess, in which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">there is neither a real board nor real pieces, the players each keeping track </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of the moves and state of play in their minds. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y207 ff23 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">7.5 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Social Contexts </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws866">One of the better-known projects in AI knowledge representation was Roger </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4af">Schank’<span class="_ _2"></span>s script-based simulation of an understanding of dining in a res-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws867">taurant (Schank and Abelson 1977). Like other frame-type models, this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws354">involved special types of representations for types of objects (menus, uten-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66c">sils, servingware, food and drink, checks, tables, chairs) and activities (arriv-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws162">ing at the host or hostess station, seating the customer<span class="_ _2"></span>, taking the order<span class="_ _2e"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bd">bringing the order<span class="_ _2"></span>, bringing the check, paying the check, tipping), as well </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws868">as special social roles (customer<span class="_ _2"></span>, host or hostess, waiter or waitress, chef). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws869">The “script” part of the program consisted in a stereotyped sequence (or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">flowchart) of events in their typical order (see fig. 4.7 in chap. 4). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y16b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20b">Schank’<span class="_ _2"></span>s program modeled a <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff24">particular type<span class="ff22 ls11 ws86a"> of social context (albeit one </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ee">that allows further variations for different types of restaurants), but its gen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e4">eral features seem to be required for understanding any type of social con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e0">text. In our understanding of social contexts, people are characteristically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws242">understood through <span class="ff24 ws0">roles</span>, often roles particular to that context. Knowing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86b">that someone is acting as a waiter<span class="_ _2"></span>, a judge, a coach, or a babysitter sets </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86c">up expectations about the things he or she is likely to do. Some of these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d2">expectations may be mere associations or prejudices—I might expect wait-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ce">ers to have stage ambitions as a result of living in an area where out-of-work </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86d">actors commonly take work waiting tables—but the more important type </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws684">are expectations tied to the role. The expectation that a waiter will bring </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19e">what I ordered is not a mere association or prejudice but part of my under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws391">standing of the role of being a waiter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. These expectations are generally inde-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86e">pendent of who is serving in that role: <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ff24 ws0">any<span class="ff22 ls11 ws86f"> waiter should bring the check at </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws390">the end of the meal. And our understanding of what that person will likely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b9">do <span class="ff24 ws0">within</span> the role will generally offer little guidance in predicting how he </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws527">might behave outside it. Indeed, within a particular context, it might be </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
