<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf7e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="7e"><div class="pc pc7e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y225 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xde h5 y728 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y729 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd4 h5 y2d5 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4b h5 y2da ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">134 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws870">less confusing to have robots perform the roles “on script” than to have, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, one’<span class="_ _2"></span>s waiter act like a judge or a babysitter instead. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72">The typology of objects within one context might likewise be orthogo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws871">nal to typologies from other contexts. The judge’<span class="_ _2"></span>s robe might be a piece </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ba">of clothing also sold as an academic gown or a preacher’<span class="_ _2"></span>s robe. The same </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws38f">production model of fork might be used as a salad fork for one course and a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3dc">dessert fork for another<span class="_ _2"></span>, and my dessert fork might be made by Mikasa and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26e">my dining partner’<span class="_ _2"></span>s by Lenox. In a pinch, I can use various chess pieces to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70d">play checkers; and if I do so, their different shapes and the ways they could </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35e">legally be moved as chess pieces are irrelevant to their typing as checkers </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws27">pieces. The same can be said for activities performed. A quarterback and a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c8">wide receiver might go through the same motions during a game that they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40e">go through just tossing the ball around at a barbeque, but only in the game </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">do those motions count as a forward pass. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws763">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e understand many social contexts with special roles, local ontologies, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13b">and activities. Each requires a separate mental model, though some models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d2">may be related to, and variants on or special cases of, others. There are dif-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws872">ferent types of dining contexts and different types of restaurants; and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws767">experienced diner knows, say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, that at <span class="_ _48"></span><span class="ff24 ws0">this<span class="ff22 ls11 ws73e"> restaurant there is a special person </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf4">called the sommelier who attends to the wine, and the check is not brought </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws2bf">until requested. Social contexts vary greatly from culture to culture, and a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws873">great deal of cultural literacy involves understanding the particular social </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21b">contexts of that culture. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, cultures can vary greatly in how strictly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e6">ritualized their practices are, and in how much of their daily life is defined </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56d">by roles and contexts. In medieval Europe or Confucian China, it would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28">seem that a very great deal of how a person was expected to behave—and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc8">probably much of how people really did behave—was defined by roles of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">family relationship, guild, and social hierarchy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">Sometimes a person’<span class="_ _2"></span>s roles can conflict and present contrary expecta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b8">tions. In the play <span class="ff24 ws0">Antigone</span>, the title character is caught between the con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws367">flicting expectations of her role as a pious sister (who should see that her </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws874">brothers’ bodies are properly buried) and as a citizen (who should obey the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ad">Archon’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s decree that they should be left where they fell in their rebellion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws671">against the state), and this kind of situation forms the basis for much classi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ab">cal tragedy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. T<span class="_ _2"></span>o understand it <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff24 ws0">as<span class="ff22 ws3ab"> tragedy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, one must understand the conflict-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws362">ing roles, which can make a story from one culture difficult for someone </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws875">from another culture with different roles to understand. Sometimes such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws801">conflicts are themselves the material for further rules: a judge should recuse </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws140">herself from a case in which she is an interested party<span class="_ _2d"></span>, such as a trial involv-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ing a member of her family<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
