<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf7f" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="7f"><div class="pc pc7f w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x79 h5 y601 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xce h5 y6b6 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y294 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d6"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xa7 h5 y6b7 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y603 ff23 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y72a ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xde h5 y6b9 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">135 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws841">Like most models, social models provide a space for possible alternative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">events and sequences of events. People don’t always order the same thing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse4">at restaurants. Sometimes they may just go for dessert or drinks. Differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e4">ent things happen at different trials, and with a different attorney<span class="_ _2d"></span>, a given </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws703">case might have resulted in a different outcome. Even a tightly constrained </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c3">event like a play allows latitude. Lear must be played mad when he carries </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws816">in Cordelia’<span class="_ _2"></span>s body in act 5, scene 3 (though note that it is a dramatic sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws876">of “must,” not one suggesting physical or logical necessity), and the actors </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b3">must say the lines that Shakespeare composed; but one actor might play </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws871">Lear weeping, and another might play his madness as having taken him </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws378">into a completely dissociative state, thinking that Cordelia merely sleeps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e5">and watching her happily for a time. Like other models, social models pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws877">vide a <span class="ff24 ws0">framework</span> for interpreting a particular type of situation, but there are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58c">various ways things might go within that framework. Some of these may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f8">be built into the model itself; others may be like improvisations on it. And, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws412">of course, in any real-world situation there will be many other things going </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws878">on as well, some of which might ultimately impact on the aptness of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws303">model. I might, for example, discover after several minutes in a restaurant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws723">that the seated people are not really diners but actors in a drama. Or I might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ab">walk in on an impromptu rehearsal of <span class="ff24">King Lear</span><span class="ls1a ws5c8"> and mistakenly think I am </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">really witnessing an old man mourning the death of his daughter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws446">Social models are <span class="ff24 ws0">un</span>like many other models, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, in the ways they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws785">shape not only our interpretation of the world but also the social world </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39f">itself. The behavior of chemical bonds does not change when our models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e5">of it change. But conduct in a courtroom changes when trial law changes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cc">and those changes are appropriated by judges and attorneys; and people in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws879">cultures that lack any understanding of the Japanese tea ceremony do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">engage in that ceremony<span class="_ _2d"></span>, however much tea they might consume. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y218 ff23 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">7.6 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls12 ws3c">Moral Models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87a">One case in which the ability of models to influence behavior is particularly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws742">evident is in prescriptive models, such as moral models. The line between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87b">ritualized behavior (or even custom) and ethics is blurry from a sociological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws391">standpoint. Indeed, the Greek word <span class="ff24 ws0">ethoi</span><span class="ls11 ws87c"> means “customs,” and it is only in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws366">the hands of philosophers that it came to mean what we mean by “ethics” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bd">or “morals” today<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Professional philosophers generally distinguish between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws567">three broad approaches to ethical evaluation: consequentialist, deontologi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws778">cal, and virtue theoretic. Each of these provides a general framework for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws414">evaluating persons or their actions. Consequentialism evaluates an action </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
