<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf80" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="80"><div class="pc pc80 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y1ba ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1f h5 y277 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6c h5 y2a9 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bb ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x50 h5 y6d7 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bc ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x56 h5 y36c ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7c h5 y6ea ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y2af ff23 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y72b ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">136 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29c">on the basis of its effects: the overall balance of good and evil, help and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws779">harm, pleasure and pain, it results in, compared to the alternative actions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws244">that were available. Deontology (from the Greek word for duty<span class="_ _2d"></span>, <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff24 ws0">deon<span class="ff22 ws244">) eval-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws56">uates actions with respect to whether they are in accordance with one’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c">duties. Virtue theory evaluates <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff24 ws0">persons<span class="ff22 ls11 ws579"> in terms of their virtues (beneficial </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b">character traits) and <span class="ff24 ws0">actions</span><span class="ls11 wsc0"> in terms of whether they were done out of a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34f">virtuous character trait. (And, of course, there are various cultural and theo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87d">retical models of what duties different classes of people have and of what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">character traits count as virtuous.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87e">While philosophers are concerned primarily with these accounts as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83b">frameworks for <span class="ff24 ws0">evaluation</span>, they can also be used to guide conduct. A per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46d">son can try to foresee the consequences of various alternative actions and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ef">evaluate their likely costs and benefits. She can take stock of what duties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws70f">she believes herself to be under and reason out what they require of her<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws825">A person can practice the things needed to acquire a particular virtue like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b4">patience and can inspect her motives and veto prospective action plans </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">that would be done out of vices like impatience. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87f">The philosophical subdiscipline called metaethics contains a great deal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws880">of literature that attempts to adjudicate which of these frameworks is a bet-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d6">ter account of what is morally good. For our purposes, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, the more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws881">important point is that each framework provides unique tools for evaluating </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e8">and shaping action and character<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Each framework picks out different fac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws2ab">tors that are relevant for such evaluations—consequences, relation to duty<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws279">and character—and each idealizes away from certain things that another </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws472">brings into focus. It seems almost certain to me that the ordinary person is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74f">better off having multiple models of human goodness than having just one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws450">of them. And I am inclined to suspect that even careful theoretical formula-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws194">tions are not enough to build all the insights of all three types of model into </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a1">a single framework, unless perhaps it is a metaframework that uses each by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58a">moving back and forth between them. There are some things for which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws301">we have concepts—like <span class="ff24 ws0">goodness</span><span class="ls11 ws3e3">—that we need to approach from various </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">angles, through a number of distinct (and sometimes conflicting) models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y21c ff23 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">7.7 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Mental Models and Scientific Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bc">I have tried to explore several familiar examples of everyday understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4">to make the basic idea that they are underwritten by mental models intui-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws882">tively clear and plausible. I have chosen examples that readers would likely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cc">be familiar with and could think about “from the inside.” Hopefully<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws569">time taken to walk through these examples will help readers form a basic </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
