<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf81" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="81"><div class="pc pc81 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72c ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5fe ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8d h5 y2db ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">137 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws600">and nontheoretical idea of what a mental model is supposed to be, and to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">assess the intuitive plausibility of the idea for themselves. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws392">These examples, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, share two features that might lead to some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ee">unnecessarily narrow assumptions about mental models. The first is that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cd">they are all taken from the middle ground of understanding—types of cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0">nition that are acquired in mid- to late childhood or adulthood, as opposed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1de">to those found in infants and young children, yet not among the more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws883">rarefied forms of thinking that require very specialized theoretical learning, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws378">like higher mathematics or scientific theories. The second, related to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws884">first, is that they are all cases in which the acquisition of a mental model is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25b">achieved through some invisible learning process on the basis of bodily and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72e">social engagement with the domain modeled, or with an external model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc9">it, or with existing social and linguistic ways of thinking and talking about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fb">it. The types of models we have discussed may indeed be acquired in differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws447">ent ways from one another—for example, some may be formed largely as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws399">a result of individual bodily and perceptual engagement, and others from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45c">supervised learning—but none of the examples was taken from the forms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws525">thinking found in very young children that seem to be present too early to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws255">be a result of learning at all, and none from the higher reaches of abstract </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">theoretical understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7">This might have suggested to the reader that mental modeling is some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89">thing found in the broad swath of everyday commonsense understanding, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws885">but absent from infant cognition and higher theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. If so, this would be a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96">misleading suggestion. Indeed, the reader may recall that a number of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws28d">main examples of domain-centered understanding described in chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws703">included several forms of thinking that arise in early development and also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws126">scientific theories. In that context, the point of the examples was to show </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32">that domain specificity was by no means unique to Fodorian modules, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws886">we would need to move beyond the bifurcation between “modular” and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53e">“central” cognition to find an appropriate way to characterize understand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws887">ing. While it was this line of thinking that led up to an alternative model-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws241">based view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, we have not yet talked about the natural conclusion: that these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">forms of understanding are based in mental models as well. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws117">The idea that understanding comes in model-sized units clearly bears a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws259">strong resemblance to the idea, which became influential in philosophy of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws170">science beginning in the 1960s, that a scientific <span class="ff24 ws0">theory</span><span class="ls11 ws888"> is an integral unit, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d">which provides its own interconnected ways of conceiving and reasoning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws889">about a particular range of phenomena. Instead of thinking of a scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66a">theory as a set of propositions built out of a theory-neutral language, phi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws275">losophers of this period began to think of the theoretical vocabulary of a </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
