<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d"><div class="pc pcd w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya6 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _38"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x47 h5 y157 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y158 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _39"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y159 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y15a ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _1d"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y15b ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y15c ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _3a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x6b h5 y15d ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4e h5 y15e ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd h5 y15f ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff9 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">6 <span class="_ _36"> </span>Chapter 1 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3">would accommodate everything we understand; but that is not how we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffb fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4">really do<span class="ffa"> think about the world, either in ordinary life or in the sciences. It </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5">is because a psychologically plausible model-based cognitive architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6">must encompass <span class="ffb ws0">many</span> models that I have dubbed my theory cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffb fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">pluralism<span class="ffa ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7">There are a number of important questions to ask in connection with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8">this thesis: Why would human (and animal) minds be built so as to under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa9">stand the world through many distinct models? How do different models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">relate to one another<span class="_ _2"></span>, and how can we use several models in conjunction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab">with one another to triangulate the world? How does the thesis that under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac">standing <span class="ffb">in general</span> is model based differ from the thesis that <span class="ffb ws0">some</span><span class="ls12 wsad"> aspects of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">the mind are “modular” in a sense that is more narrowly confined to cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaf">nitive systems that are fully encapsulated, automatic, nativistic, and per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0">haps products of natural selection? And how is model-based understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb1">related to the kinds of thinking that philosophers more commonly study— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb2">thinking that is (at least putatively) language-like and can involve explicit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">arguments? </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y111 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3">One feature of models that I emphasize in this book is that models are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffb fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">idealized<span class="ffa wsb4">. One way in which they are idealized consists simply in the fact </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb5">that each model is a model <span class="ffb ws0">of</span> some specific domain and brackets every-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb6">thing else about the world. But most models are also idealized in the deeper </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7">sense that they provide <span class="ffb ws0">good-enough</span><span class="ls11 wsb8"> ways of thinking and reasoning about </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb9">their domains <span class="ffb">for some particular set of purposes</span><span class="ls11 wsba"> without these being exact, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb">unidealized, or context-neutral ways of representing their targets. This is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b">perfectly understandable when viewed from the standpoint of asking how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbc">an organism that is a product of natural selection and possesses only lim-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd">ited cognitive resources can nonetheless successfully negotiate its environ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84">ment. Nature builds organisms with cognitive abilities that are relevant to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsbe">their needs, using whatever types of neural resources are available for a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf">given species, and generally does so with remarkable efficiency<span class="_ _2d"></span>. What is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc0">potentially more surprising is that even our most sophisticated modes of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc1">understanding, such as scientific models, are also domain centered and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc2">idealized in the same basic ways, even though they are far more exacting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3">and track features of the world that are more “objective” in the sense of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc4">being less tied to idiosyncrasies of the individual or the species. A model is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5">always a model of some particular phenomenon (and not of everything at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsc6">once), represented in some particular way (and not in some other way). As a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc7">result, understanding the world through models of its different features also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc8">requires further abilities to recognize when each model can appropriately </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">be applied and how to use multiple models to triangulate the world. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
