<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf82" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="82"><div class="pc pc82 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y602 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb4 h5 y72d ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd h5 y603 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4 h5 y30e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">138 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88a">theory as constitutively interdefined with its laws and other commitments. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws559">Scientific theories have their own proprietary ways of representing and rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac">soning about phenomena, tightly interconnected internally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, but only more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d5">loosely connected to everything else. This is precisely what I have been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87b">saying about mental models more generally<span class="_ _2d"></span>. I do not claim credit for this as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b4">a completely novel insight. A number of writers before me have suggested </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88b">that we view understanding generally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, even the infant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81f">(Gopnik 1996), on the model of scientific theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. I simply prefer to put it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws734">the other way around: scientific theories are a special case of how we rou-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf6">tinely come to understand the world through mental models. Model-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88c">views have become increasingly popular in philosophy of science over the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws715">past thirty years, and I will discuss the relation of some of these to my own </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84f">view in chapter 9. Here, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, I will try to develop the idea that scien-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws748">tific understanding is based in mental models in the same sort of intuitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">fashion I have employed with other mental models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws93">In most of the types of models we have already explored, a model is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a3">something that contains elements that are analogous to the objects, fea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88d">tures, relations, and processes found in their target systems. A modeling </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11e">system must have features that mirror key features of the target domain to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63c">be apt. This is also the case with scientific theories and laws. These postulate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88e">entities and their characteristic properties and relations, as well as invari-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws653">ants expressed by laws and physical constants. Like other types of models, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">theories and laws are a kind of surrogate that allow us to deal, in an ideal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws367">ized way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, with features of the world in a fashion that affords both under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c9">standing and prediction. A theory of gravitation or a law like the inverse </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c0">square law <span class="ff24 ws0">is</span> in this sense a model of the dynamics of gravitational influ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88f">ence. Theories and laws about collision are models of how objects behave </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">when they collide. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85a">Like other models, scientific theories and laws are idealized in several </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e3">ways. First, they employ <span class="ff24">bracketing idealizations</span><span class="ls11 ws1eb"> in what they exclude from </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a1">their scope. A gravitational model is concerned only with gravitational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws890">interactions, not with collisions or electromagnetism. This affords insight </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws891">into one invariant in nature, but at the cost of resulting in a model that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws892">is increasingly inadequate for kinematic predictions (i.e., predictions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws893">how objects will actually move) in cases where nongravitational forces </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws344">play larger roles. Second, they employ <span class="ff24">distorting idealizations</span><span class="ls11 ws1df">. A particular </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ee">model of particle collisions, for example, may treat them as ideally elas-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1aa">tic. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e know this assumption to be false, but such a model may still be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c2">apt for low-energy collisions among some types of particles. Third, scien-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a6">tific laws often employ constants for the values of forces in a fashion that </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
