<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf83" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="83"><div class="pc pc83 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xd6 h5 y1ba ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2a9 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1ef ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72f ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa h5 y36d ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5e h5 y2b0 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xcd h5 y730 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">139 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29e">only approximates their real values. When the laws are considered in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws474">abstract, this can be avoided by simply using a letter for the constant. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87d">to put the law to work in a computation, some <span class="ff24">finite approximation</span><span class="ls18 ws84b"> of the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws357">value must be used. This is often innocuous but will cause inaccuracies of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">prediction in chaotic systems in particular<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c5">As with other types of models, scientific theories can be thought of as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws894">models of real-world processes at two levels. First, the theory itself—say<span class="_ _2"></span>, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e6">theory of special relativity—can be thought of as a model of very general </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws786">invariants found in nature, and of space-time as a whole. But it can also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29d">be used as a framework for modeling more specific problems, such as how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">several bodies will behave with respect to one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws895">But there are also several ways in which scientific models differ from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws896">some of the other types of models we have explored. Contrary to what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws897">some previous generations of philosophers supposed, scientific under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws898">standing is not simply a result of inductive associations from naive percep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws343">tion. Scientific concepts and principles often differ significantly from those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c9">of common sense and have to be constructed through difficult processes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57f">of experiment design and theory building. While the resulting models are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws383">ultimately the outcome of a long process of bootstrapping up from com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18a">monplace modes of conceiving and interacting with the world, the boot-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50a">strapping process requires the development of some highly specialized and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws649">regimented forms of thinking, including new forms of mathematics and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e2">regimens for experiment and confirmation. Many scientific models thus </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws788">employ rarefied mathematical forms of representation that confer a form </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws880">of exactitude not found in most other models, and scientific reasoning and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bb">experimentation are regimented in ways designed to minimize error far </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">beyond those employed in everyday life. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws899">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e also frequently speak of science being “objective.” This is a tricky </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a">word, one that upon examination has many different meanings. But one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fb">thing that it can mean, which really does seem to apply to scientific under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89a">standing, involves the minimization of individual and collective idiosyn-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3fe">cracies and biases. If we assume that cognition arose first and foremost as a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44c">way of allowing organisms to interact more adaptively with their environ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws244">ments, it is natural to conclude that the baseline “default settings” for any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89b">mind are optimized for things that are biologically salient to the organ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws675">ism: paradigmatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, things relevant to sur<span class="_ _2f"></span>vival, nutrition, maturation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">and reproduction. From a biological standpoint, it is actually <span class="ff24 ws0">good</span><span class="ls18 ws209"> that an </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ce">organism’<span class="_ _2"></span>s mind is attuned to things like what is dangerous, what is edible, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e5">and, in the case of social organisms, who is aggressive or cooperative. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89c">features like these—what Gibson called <span class="ff24 ws0">affordances</span></div><div class="t m0 x5e h8 ya4 ff22 fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 xcd h5 y381 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws89d">—are not simply facts </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
