<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf84" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="84"><div class="pc pc84 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x82 h5 yfd ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbb h5 y26b ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _6a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b6 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x89 h5 y731 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72a ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x63 h5 y732 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">140 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 7 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws828">about the object but facts about its potential relation to the interests of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89e">the organism, and such facts vary from individual to individual and from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws541">species to species. What is food for the butterfly is not food for the lion, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51a">and what is dangerous for me may not be dangerous for you. Such facts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41b">are “subjective,” not in the sense that they depend on opinion or taste, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c6">but in the sense that they are really <span class="ff24 ws0">relational</span><span class="ls11 ws51a"> facts that depend crucially </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws527">on who and what type of organism you are and what your interests are. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b0">Animal minds (including those of human animals) have evolved so that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws278">certain interest-relative properties of the world stand out, and this extends </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58b">even to how we conceptualize objects and the world itself. For example, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">we “naturally” understand <span class="ff24 ws0">up</span> and <span class="ff24 ws0">down</span> to be privileged directions—a use-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bf">ful and efficient way of framing spatial geometry for organisms that dwell </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws307">on the surface of a planet, but one that long proved an impediment to a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80">satisfactory cosmology<span class="_ _2"></span>. The privileged place of cohesive solids in our matu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws41">rationally normal ways of thinking about a world of objects is likewise a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b7">useful framing, though one that makes contemporary physics counterintui-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ac">tive. The color vision systems of various species no doubt attune them to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ba">affordances that are important to their mode of life, but color is not a good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">framework for understanding scientific optics. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y113 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89f">One thing we mean in calling science “objective” is that, to achieve sci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws849">entific understanding, we often have to peel away layers of “subjectivity” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16c">that involve understanding things in interest-relevant ways that are pecu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws110">liar to us as individuals or as a species. This, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, does not mean that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55e">there is an end point of “complete objectivity<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” The explanator<span class="_ _2f"></span>y interests </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40d">of the sciences are still <span class="ff24 ws0">interests</span><span class="ls11 ws387">, and ones that occur to members of one </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a0">particular species, and even so only within particular historical and cultural </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4de">contexts. Our ways of conceiving things scientifically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, even our mathemati-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws189">cal understanding, are still drawn from the repertoire of ways that minds </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a1">like ours are capable of thinking, and are also conditioned by the ways we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14f">have of investigating and acting on the world, even if these are greatly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">extended and transformed through technology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y147 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71c">The “objectivity” of science also does not imply a single theoretical per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55a">spective. Scientists use a number of distinct models: relativistic and quan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a2">tum models, wave and particle models, evolutionary and molecular-genetic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81b">models. Like different types of maps, scientific models can be incommen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws826">surable with one another<span class="_ _2"></span>, have incompatible representational systems and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a0">background assumptions, and license contradictory predictions. This is one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b7">of the principal phenomena described as “disunity of science,” and we will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63d">examine in later chapters what cognitive pluralism might have to say about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">the causes of such disunity and the prospects for unification. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
