<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf85" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="85"><div class="pc pc85 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff23 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y293 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y53e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a5"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72e ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd9 h5 y732 ff22 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff23 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">141 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Mental Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff23 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">7.8 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Core and Folk Systems </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ae">At the other end of the spectrum of cognitive sophistication from scien-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19d">tific models, we find early appearing, developmentally canalized forms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87b">thinking such as the core and folk systems described in chapter 4. These are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">each centered on domains that are constituted by their respective internal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23c">ontologies, which are represented and reasoned about in distinctive ways.</div><div class="t m0 x9d h8 yd9 ff22 fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y733 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fe">The core object system, for example, has an internal ontology with a single </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y734 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a3">generic class of things (“Objects”), properties (location, shape, motion), </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y735 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a4">relations (being in contact, colliding), and processes (causal launching, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y736 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbc">moving in a continuous path) and is characterized by constitutive “rules” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y737 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a5">that guide anticipations—for example, that Objects are cohesive and con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y738 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74e">tiguous, move in continuous paths, and go into motion only when acted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y739 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a6">on. It seems natural to view at least the core object and agency systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y73a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a7">(and perhaps the core geometric system) as models of broad and generic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y73b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a8">domains. They involve both bracketing and distorting idealizations and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y73c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd9">employ representational systems with different representational types and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y73d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">rules of inference. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y73e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b4">There are <span class="ff24 ws0">several</span> core systems and several folk systems. They latch onto </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y73f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd">different systemic features of the physical, mental, social, and biological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y740 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d">world and provide systematic frameworks for representing facts involving </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y741 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45a">those features. T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo systems can often be applied to the selfsame object: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y742 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws174">Socrates can be constituted as an Object, an Agent, a thinker<span class="_ _2"></span>, an organism. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y743 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61">But in spite of this, different systems can constitute their common referent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y744 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c9">in incompatible ways. A child’<span class="_ _2"></span>s toy or doll might at one time be constituted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y745 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf9">as an Object and at another as an Agent, but nothing could really answer </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y746 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f1">perfectly to the rules of both the Object and Agency systems, as they have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y747 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">incompatible rules about how motion is initiated. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y748 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a9">Given the extended developmental sequence of the folk theories, it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y749 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8aa">seems overwhelmingly likely that their acquisition, like those of several </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y74a ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ab">other types of mental models we have discussed, depends on extended </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y74b ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws552">engagement with the physical, biological, and social world, albeit with the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y74c ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws750">important caveat that their species-typical features suggest that there may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y74d ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ac">be strong developmental biases. Core systems would seem to need to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y74e ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ad">even more strongly developmentally canalized, as there is evidence that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y74f ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws198">they are present so early in infancy that it seems unlikely that the child </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y750 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ae">could have inferred principles like cohesion and local causal dynamics (for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y751 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bf">Objects) or goal-directed motion (for Agents) from observation and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y752 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws421">severely limited capacities for controlled interaction available to human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y753 ff22 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">infants. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
