<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf89" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="89"><div class="pc pc89 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x1c h5 y1ba ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e4 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y78a ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd4 h5 y69d ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y78b ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xde h5 y3e7 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">145 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Relations between Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36">transformations thereof. But it is also in a broader sense itself a model of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50a">structural possibilities, affordances, transformations, and resulting views of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5eb">objects in geometric space. It might also be a model <span class="ff27">of physical space</span><span class="ls1e ws32b"> in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c1">general, one that differs from other mathematically possible models that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21e">employ distinct geometric or topological principles. It is both an abstract </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws102">model and a modeling system for providing representations and models of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">more particular states of affairs and processes. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws194">A model of human anatomy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, by contrast, is generally useful not as a kind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc9">of production system for various anatomical configurations but as a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b9">of the standard human anatomy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It may be that some such models have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e3">parts that can be modified, removed, or rearranged to model nonstandard </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63b">configurations, but to the best of my knowledge, this is not its standard or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88d">preferred use. It can, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, be used to model specific conditions and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43e">procedures, such as the anatomical consequences of removing a bone or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">organ or different approaches to surgical intervention. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c2">Where we draw the boundaries around the term ‘model’ here is in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f0">part a matter of deciding what terminology will provide the most useful </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30d">set of theoretical resources. I am inclined to use the term in fashion that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws601">treats “models” as offering a space of representational possibilities of states </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b2">of affairs. But this usage is extremely broad, allowing models of varying </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c3">degrees of generality and abstraction. Model A may provide the representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ea">tional space for B, in which case B may be said to be a representation within </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">the representational system afforded by A. But B may nevertheless itself be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8c4">a model if it defines a space of representations of its own. Even a model of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ba">particular object may do this: a scale model of a car or train may be capable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws799">of being manipulated to represent various states—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, doors open or doors </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws766">closed, hooked to the engine or decoupled—and may allow other sorts of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws714">representations as well, such as one of the ratio between the length and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ef">width of the vehicle. Or a model of a 1961 Lincoln limo (the type of car </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws658">in which President Kennedy was riding when he was assassinated) might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35b">be used in a <span class="ff27 ws0">representation</span> of the assassination, or as a modeling system </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws173">for conspiracy theorists attempting to prove that the shots could not have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">come from a single gun. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y149 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ac">There can thus be a hierarchy of models, differing in degree of abstrac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e5">tion, much as concepts can come in hierarchies from the more generic to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws137">the more specific. This sort of idea is also familiar in knowledge representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c5">tion, and more generally in object-oriented programming in computer sci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80">ence, as the notion of an <span class="ff27">inheritance class</span><span class="ls11 ws8c6">, where one kind of object is based </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f1">on another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. A computer simulation of a mental model of a particular kind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35e">of solid, for example, might be defined using the class features of a more </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
