<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e"><div class="pc pce w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y160 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y161 ff9 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y162 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y163 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7e h5 y164 ffa fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7c h2 ya5 ff9 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">7 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Introduction </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc9">The fact that different models represent the world in different ways also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsca">opens up the possibility that two models may not always play well together: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscb">they may be formally incommensurable or lead to conflicting anticipations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc">about how things in the world will behave. T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo models that are each quite </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscd">good individually for particular purposes may conflict with each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsce">this raises important questions about whether the kinds of understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f">they supply <span class="ffb ws0">jointly</span> can be accommodated by a single “super model” that is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscf">intended to “unify” them. This is the kind of problem that drives both the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd0">reductionist agenda in philosophy of science and the search for a grand </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd1">unified theory in physics, and many people have assumed that it is only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">a matter of time, discovery<span class="_ _2"></span>, and hard work before such projects yield their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c">desired results. What cognitive pluralism suggests is that the question of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd2">whether we can achieve such explanatory unification depends not only on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd3">how the world is but also on empirical psychological facts about our cogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tive architecture. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y165 ff9 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">1.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Overview of the Book </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">The book is divided into three parts. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y167 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd4">Part 1, “From the Standard View to Cognitive Pluralism,” presents as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd5">a foil for cognitive pluralism a “standard view” that is assumed in main-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd6">stream epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, semantics, truth theor<span class="_ _2f"></span>y<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and theor<span class="_ _2f"></span>y of reasoning, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd7">which does not accord mental models any special role. Instead the standard </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd8">view treats the basic types of units found in thinking as analogous to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd9">three sizes of units found in language and logic: units that are word sized, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsda">sentence sized, and argument sized. It is sentence-sized judgments or beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdb">(or their propositional contents) that are candidates for truth. Sentence-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdc">sized units have semantic values that are largely functions of the meanings </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdd">of their constituent concepts plus their compositional syntax (or<span class="_ _2"></span>, if forms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41">of judgment are not literally syntactic, some structural feature analogous </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsde">to syntax). Semantic atomists and holists differ over whether semantic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">value is constructed from the ground up, beginning with atomic concepts, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse0">or determined by the entire network of concepts, beliefs, and inferential </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse1">commitments; but they agree on the basic <span class="ffb ws0">units</span><span class="ls11 wse2"> of analysis, with the sole </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse3">exception that holists count the entire network as itself the governing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse4">unit. Sentence-sized units (beliefs or judgments) are standardly regarded </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse5">as the basic candidates for warrant as well as truth and hence are treated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse6">as the principal units of epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, though foundationalists and coher-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wse7">entists differ over whether warrant attaches to some beliefs individually<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ffa fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse8">and the rest through their being the conclusions of valid arguments from </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
