<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf8c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="8c"><div class="pc pc8c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xba h4 y232 ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x41 h4 y241 ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb1 h4 y242 ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x64 h4 y244 ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y7ac ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y7ad ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e4"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7ae ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x3d h4 y7af ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39c ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y7b0 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">148 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 8 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h1a y231 ff27 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8de">The essence of metaphor is understanding and experiencing one kind of thing in terms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff27 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8df">of another.<span class="ff25"> It is not that arguments are a subspecies of war. Arguments and wars </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e0">are different kinds of things—verbal discourse and armed conflict—and the actions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e1">performed are different kinds of actions. But </div><div class="t m0 x73 h4 y7b1 ff25 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">ARGUMENT<span class="fs1 ws8e1"> is partially structured, un-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b2 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e2">derstood, performed, and talked about in terms of </div><div class="t m0 x6e h4 y242 ff25 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">WAR<span class="fs1 ws8e2">. The concept is metaphori-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e3">cally structured, the activity is metaphorically structured, and, consequently, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">language is metaphorically structured. (Lakoff and Johnson 2003, 5) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws760">In metaphor<span class="_ _2"></span>, the language and the manner of understanding the source </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y389 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f">domain (in this case, war) are taken over as ways of understanding the tar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">get domain (in this case, argument). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y38b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws633">What Lakoff and Johnson say about metaphor has a great deal in com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws93">mon with what I have said about mental models: each metaphor works </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38d ff27 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">systematically<span class="ff25 ws8e4"> and obscures (idealizes away from) some things so as to high-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">light others. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7ae ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e5">The very systematicity that allows us to comprehend one aspect of a concept in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b3 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e6">terms of another (e.g., comprehending an aspect of arguing in terms of battle) will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b4 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e7">necessarily hide other aspects of the concept. In allowing us to focus on one aspect </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b5 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws81a">of a concept (e.g., the battling aspects of arguing), a metaphorical concept can keep </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b6 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e8">us from focusing on other aspects of the concept that are inconsistent with that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b7 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8e9">metaphor. For example, in the midst of a heated argument, when we are intent on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b8 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws6df">attacking our opponent’s position and defending our own, we may lose sight of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b9 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8ea">cooperative aspects of arguing. Someone who is arguing with you can be viewed as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7ba ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1f6">giving you his time, a valuable commodity, in an effort at mutual understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7bb ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8eb">But when we are preoccupied with the battle aspects, we often lose sight of the co-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7af ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">operative aspects. (Lakoff and Johnson 2003, 10) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25e">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, we can use multiple metaphors to highlight different features of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws737">the target domain. Lakoff and Johnson note several different metaphorical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws701">frameworks for understanding ideas (as people, plants, products, commodi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws197">ties, resources, money<span class="_ _2d"></span>, cutting instruments, fashions) and love (as a physi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a0 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">cal force, a [medical] patient, magic, war). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3a1 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7af">Lakoff and Johnson’<span class="_ _2"></span>s book (which is both eminently readable and well </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a2 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e">worth reading) contains far more interesting observation and theory than </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a3 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f">can be explored here. From the perspective of model-based cognitive plural-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a4 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c2">ism, the important lesson seems to be this: sometimes we can form a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a5 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ec">of a domain by taking a model of some entirely different domain and trans-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a6 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb">posing its structure to be used as the basis for a new model. The system </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a7 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ed">of already-understood types, connections, and inference patterns from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a8 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9">the source model provides a kind of ready-made scaffolding for a model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a9 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fe">another domain. This is an exceptionally powerful learning technique, as it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3aa ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd">provides a way of acquiring the basis of a model of a new domain without </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
