<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf8d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="8d"><div class="pc pc8d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xa2 h5 ya6 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y157 ff26 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1c2 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x18 h5 y7bc ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xdc h5 y7bd ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y7be ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e5"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xcc h5 y792 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5c h5 y269 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">149 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Relations between Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58b">having to construct it from scratch through laborious exploration of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">target domain. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y200 ff26 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">8.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls12">Triangulation </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yfd ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ee">The thesis that we understand the world through using many domain-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y160 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ef">specific models that have proprietary rules, representational systems, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1af ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f0">internal ontologies may explain important things about understanding, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b0 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18a">it also presents problems. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e may use many individual models to under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b1 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws321">stand different things about the world, but we do not <span class="ff27 ws0">only</span><span class="ls11 ws25a"> use models one </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b2 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14e">at a time and in isolation from one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In bodily interaction with the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b3 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws345">world, we employ a number of distinct perceptual, motor<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b4 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws240">systems, not merely simultaneously but cooperatively and in an integrated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f1">manner<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Even in off-line thinking, such as imagination, reasoning, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f2">theorizing, we can think about an object, phenomenon, event, or general </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f3">type of problem from a variety of angles, framed in terms of different mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fe">els. And this raises questions about (1) how we are able to coordinate them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws474">adaptively at all; (2) how we are able to recognize <span class="ff27">one and the same</span><span class="ls18 ws48e"> object, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bb">phenomenon, and so on, though we are thinking about it through multiple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ba">models; and (3) how we are able to combine insights from different models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33b">through reasoning, so that the resulting understanding we have as a whole </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f4">is more than simply the sum of what we would get from several distinct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">model-based processes going on simultaneously<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y16b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f5">If our <span class="ff27 ws0">only</span> way of thinking about the world were through individual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws842">models, it would seem that at least the second and third questions might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws487">prove impossible, and even the first would require some explanation. If </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">we assume that models (or at least those that constitute objects at all) each </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws782">have their own implicit internal ontologies, positing special types of things, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c8">properties, relations, processes, and transformations, there is a danger that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f6">they would end up being separate gears spinning on their own axes without </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89a">engaging one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Suppose I am playing chess. I recognize a piece as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31c">a knight within the chess model. I also recognize it as a particular kind of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55d">physical object—a small wooden piece I can pick up, a large concrete statue </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f4">that would need to be moved by heavy equipment, or perhaps a human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85c">being in costume if it is a game of human chess. But if model-based cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f7">nition were the whole story<span class="_ _2"></span>, I would not recognize <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff27">a single thing<span class="ff25 ls12 ws301"> as being </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f8">both a knight and a concrete statue. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, I would have two separate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e7">representations: one of a chess knight, and another of a concrete statue. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws894">Either I would see them as <span class="ff27">two different things</span><span class="ls11"> with no way to connect them, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b6">or perhaps I would not even be able to count across models at all, simply </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
