<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf92" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="92"><div class="pc pc92 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff26 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd5 h5 y26a ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6b h5 y26b ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x29 h5 y26c ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x74 h5 y162 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y3e8 ff26 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y26f ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y7f2 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f3 ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 yda ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">154 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 8 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff26 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Perceptual Binding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws303">The perceptual binding problem is probably the case that has received the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cc">most scientific attention. A proposal like Crick and Koch’<span class="_ _2"></span>s phase binding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws511">hypothesis provides an explanation of how information represented in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91d">distinct areas of the brain—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the visual areas for color and form—gets </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65a">coupled. Integration of information from different sensory modalities may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a0">additionally use association areas of the cortex that take inputs from mul-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b3">tiple sources. However<span class="_ _2d"></span>, these do not seem to be a <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff27">sensus communis<span class="ff25"> for pan-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws137">modal representations. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, the integration of information from various </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78b">modalities into a single percept seems to be a matter of how different areas </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e7">are <span class="ff27">coordinated and act in concert</span> rather than being accomplished by an addi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ca">tional area. There is no more an anatomical <span class="ff27">sensus communis</span><span class="ls12 wsd9"> than a string </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9e">quartet ensemble is an instrument over and above the violins, viola, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57f">cello. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, the explanation invokes nothing like language-like repre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62">sentations, but neural systems in a kind of dynamic resonance pattern. And </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5de">whereas a language-like representation supports the combined representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84">tion of two types of information in a single medium, phase binding treats </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88e">the situation as involving the coordination of separate representations in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">different representational systems and representational media. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y20f ff26 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Sensorimotor Engagement </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14f">Perception is not normally a passive process like a camera recording an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87b">image. It usually takes place as part of engagement with the world, which is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e">often purposeful and involves motor processes through which an organism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b6">acts on the world, even in the process of exploring it perceptually<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Senso-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11d">rimotor engagement involves more than merely binding together informa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws286">tion from separate perceptual streams. It involves coordinating per<span class="_ _2e"></span>ceptual, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f3">motor<span class="_ _2"></span>, and orienting systems in a fashion that is propelled by the drives </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22b">and interests of the organism and constrained by its physiological and cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91e">nitive abilities. Such processes, even when they are primarily “perceptual,” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91f">also evolve as dynamic processes over time, adjusting to explore for new </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">information in light of present states. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws920">Advocates of “embodied and embedded cognition,” “situated cogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws624">tion,” and the “enactive approach” have provided general frameworks for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws921">characterizing such processes, using resources such as dynamic systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. Silberstein and Chemero, for example, write: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f3 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws922">We propose that extended phenomenology-cognition be understood as a variety </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f4 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws923">of niche construction, one in which the constructed niche is an animal’s cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f5 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws924">and phenomenological niche. In biological niche construction, the activity of some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f6 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws925">population of organisms alters, sometimes dramatically, its own ecological niche as </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
