<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf94" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="94"><div class="pc pc94 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xa2 h4 y244 ff25 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x60 h5 y81c ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y39e ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y81d ff26 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y81e ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x41 h5 y81f ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x11 h5 y820 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _f1"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y821 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">156 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 8 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws942">the animal’s abilities. At the same time, the set of affordances available to the animal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws943">profoundly influence the development of the animal’s sensorimotor abilities. So we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws588">have a three-part, coupled, nonlinear dynamical system in which the nervous sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws944">tem partly determines and is partly determined by the sensorimotor abilities which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws945">partly determine, and are partly determined by, the affordances available to the ani-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4c">mal. (Silberstein and Chemero 2011, 7–9; figure number amended to correspond to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff25 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">the present text) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws140">Depending on the state of interaction between organism and environment, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y389 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws946">control of the overall dynamics might be located in various places: in some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71b">neural subsystem, in processes adjusting the coupling, in features of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79d">environment, or in a more distributed system including both an organism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d8">and objects and processes external to it. While such an explanation does </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws349">not focus primarily on operation of subsystems like mental models, this is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws801">primarily because it is intended to be a general framework that is applicable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws947">to many types of relationships between organism and environment. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y390 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws254">enactive approach need not <span class="ff27 ws0">deny</span><span class="ls11 ws4df"> that neural systems can be functionally </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y391 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws948">decomposed into subsystems like mental models, or that these can play </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y392 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66f">a predominant role in the dynamics of some kinds of tasks or be what is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y393 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ff">tightly coupled to more specific features of the environment (the system </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y394 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsea">modeled) in the performance of those tasks. Coupling mechanisms specific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y395 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws949">to model-based interaction might be eminently relevant to the mastery </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y396 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94a">and aptness of models, and the dynamics of neural change in learning an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y397 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws588">important tool for an account of model acquisition. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, the capac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y398 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws870">ity for off-line cognition may quite plausibly involve replacing an online </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y399 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b7">coupling to external objects with a coupling to mental models that act as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y822 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e0">their surrogates. (In this respect, I think that a model-based approach to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y823 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94b">cognition provides a natural extension of dynamic coupling accounts of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y824 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">online cognition.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y825 ff26 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">The Selfsame Object </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y826 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94c">None of this so far really addresses the key issue Husserl identified as Hume’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y827 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94d">problem: how we are able to constitute something, perceived and conceived </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y828 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17e">in various ways and over time, as <span class="ff27">the selfsame object</span><span class="ls11 wsf4">, which endures through </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y829 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ea">changes over time and is understood as the same thing even as our percep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y82a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94e">tions of and beliefs about it change. This phenomenon—which we may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y82b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws348">call <span class="ff27">object-oriented cognition</span>—is really a special <span class="ff27 ws0">type</span><span class="ls11 ws94f"> of triangulation, distinct </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y82c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">from the practical coordination of different models used in tandem. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y82d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws950">I think there may be at least two significantly different sorts of cases here, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y82e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d">which seem to require different sorts of accounts. The first involves object </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y82f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72f">tracking within a perceptual episode. The brain has comparatively low-level </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
