<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf95" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="95"><div class="pc pc95 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xb9 h5 y3ab ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y770 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ae ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y53c ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">157 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Relations between Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws951">mechanisms, particularly in the visual system, that seem to be involved </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87d">in tracking an object over time. These seem to be capable of dealing with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws625">things like temporarily occluded objects, and perhaps even of constituting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws715">objects that are not yet directly perceived on the basis of cues such as scent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws169">or the vibrations in a spider’<span class="_ _2"></span>s web. Such processes do not seem to require </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11b">resources for the postulation of proposition-like hypotheses, though some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77e">times we find it easiest to describe them in terms of beliefs. They are found </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10c">quite broadly in the animal kingdom. But they do not account for the abili-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13e">ties to reidentify something as the selfsame object in <span class="ff27 ws0">distinct</span><span class="ls12 ws952"> perceptual </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws535">episodes, or to engage in object-oriented triangulation in types of thinking </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">other than perception. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws610">On the other hand, it is not clear how many animal species are able to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws953">reidentify something as the selfsame individual on different occasions, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1db">to think about it as an individual in off-line cognition. An ant can identify </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1de">something as another ant, and things such as whether it is of the same </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e8">colony<span class="_ _2d"></span>, perhaps its “caste,” and states such as carr<span class="_ _2f"></span>ying home food. But an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7db">ant probably cannot tell one individual worker or drone of its own colony </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws954">from another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. More likely<span class="_ _2"></span>, each encounter with another nest mate is for it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws955">simply a kind tokening—“worker ant,” “worker ant again.” Mammals and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32b">birds, on the other hand, are able to reidentify specific individuals, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">this ability seems necessary for identification of mates and offspring, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21c">to undergird social cognition for things like dominance hierarchies, at least </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws530">among the more social species. It is unclear just where in the phylogenetic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83d">tree such abilities appear<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Perhaps an alligator can see another alligator and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws956">remember it as the same alligator it saw a week ago. Or perhaps it just </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40c">thinks, in effect, “male alligator bigger than me” on each occasion, not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">treating the two kind tokenings as presenting the selfsame individual. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws957">At least some species seem able to reidentify not only particular con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2">specifics but particular inanimate objects as well. A dog seems able to rec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c6">ognize a <span class="ff27 ws0">particular</span> toy<span class="_ _2"></span>, for example. And of course many animals are able </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6aa">to identify particular individuals of other species as well—a domestic dog </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35b">can recognize its favorite human as well as it can recognize other dogs, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws958">and evidence suggests that even wild birds can distinguish between dif-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7">ferent humans they have encountered. I suspect that the ability to reiden-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f0">tify individuals may initially have been an adaptation for social cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e0">involving conspecifics within social species and is probably one of the key </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1db">prerequisites for being a social animal. It may be that once this ability is in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8e4">place, extending it to other things—individuals in other species, inanimate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws172">objects—comes for free or at least requires only the perceptual abilities to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12f">discriminate whatever cues are needed to distinguish between individuals. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
