<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf96" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="96"><div class="pc pc96 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yfd ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x34 h5 y26a ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _f2"> </span> <span class="_ _ac"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x4f h5 y26b ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x59 h5 y26d ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y602 ff26 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y161 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x15 h5 y6b6 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72a ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">158 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 8 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48">(Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou and I have the requisite cognitive resources to think of separate indi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws959">viduals, but our perceptual abilities are not well suited to distinguishing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws724">between particular ants of the same species and caste.) Alternatively<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c2">be that these require further cognitive abilities that build on foundations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">originating in social condition. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e7">The ability to reidentify specific individuals seems to require a particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6dc">kind of cognitive resource: concepts that are namelike rather than generic. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18c">Kind concepts (</div><div class="t m0 x79 h5 y7d8 ff25 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">DOG<span class="fs2 ls7 ws18c">) and property concepts (</span>MALE<span class="fs2 ls7 ws18c">, </span>SPOTTED<span class="fs2 ls11 ws80a">) are by nature </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y830 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e8">things that can be applied to multiple individuals. Namelike concepts, by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y831 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84c">contrast, have the function of picking out and tracking just one thing. This </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y832 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54f">strikes me as likely to be a <span class="ff27 ws0">special</span> kind of concept, one that is not required </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y833 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50a">for having ways of tracking kinds and variable properties, and one that has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y834 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws954">probably appeared comparatively recently in evolutionary history<span class="_ _2"></span>, though </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y835 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">perhaps independently in several widely separated taxa. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y836 ff26 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Information Passing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y837 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a3">While thinking within a model may often take place more or less autono-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y838 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws174">mously<span class="_ _2d"></span>, we are also often able to pass information between models. In this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y839 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b0">way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, at least some model-based reasoning is not entirely encapsulated in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y83a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e">the way that Fodor described modules.</div><div class="t m0 x1d h8 y7c ff25 fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2</div><div class="t m0 x15 h5 y7c4 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e"> My mental model of a social situ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y7c5 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a9">ation may supply general anticipations about what to expect, but I may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y83b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws400">need different types of information, not supplied by that model, to achieve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y83c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95a">a more fine-grained understanding of the situation and to make better </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y83d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35">predictions. Some aspects of how a waiter will behave—at least while “on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y83e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f9">script”—may be supplied by my model of restaurant etiquette. But oth-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y83f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95b">ers might require me to know something about his individual psychology: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y840 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cd">whether he is passive-aggressive, what his cultural background is, whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y841 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7db">he is an experienced waiter or in training, what other roles he plays in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y842 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd7">restaurant or outside it, what sort of mood he is in. It requires different sorts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y843 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws575">of models to understand these things, but if I do grasp them, they can affect </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y844 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">how I run the restaurant model in this particular case. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y845 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44b">The analogy that recommends itself to me here is that of parameter pass-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y846 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40d">ing in computer programming. Contemporary programming is generally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y847 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46f">highly modularized, with distinct subprograms used for different opera-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y848 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70d">tions. The different code modules, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, are not simply different opera-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y849 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cf">tions that run in parallel; often one calls on another and passes and receives </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y84a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws250">values of variables called parameters. One module M1 might, for example, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y84b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46d">need the area of a triangle but only have information about the length of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y84c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57a">the sides. There is a formula for computing area on the basis of the lengths </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y84d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">of the sides, called Heron’<span class="_ _2"></span>s formula. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
