<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf99" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="99"><div class="pc pc99 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bc ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1c0 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xec h5 y5f8 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x95 h5 y457 ff25 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff26 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">161 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Relations between Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38e">case, if we use only the social model of professional responsibility<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws168">lead to a prediction that the woman will stay at the office until the job is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96a">complete. If we use only the model of maternal responsibility<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c6">lead to a prediction that she will leave to pick up her daughter sometime </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c8">between the originally expected hour and the time day care closes. In both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c5">cases, each model brackets the factors relevant to the other<span class="_ _2"></span>, and so neither </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws657">model alone can be used as the basis for a realistic prediction of real-world </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f3">behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Of course, in some ways the cases are different. In mechanics, we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws651">have the technique of summation of forces through vector algebra, whereas </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96b">this approach is not available in the case of social duties, in which there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">might be other meta-techniques like assessing how one duty might trump </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2dc">another<span class="_ _2"></span>, or there might be methods of finding a satisficing solution. But in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87f">both kinds of cases, any kind of method that is used must go beyond the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws159">resources of a single model, as each model brackets factors relevant to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48d">other<span class="_ _2"></span>, and both kinds of factors are relevant to the real-world situation. And </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws737">there are probably both physical and social cases where we do not have an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">algorithmic method that ensures a way of integrating the factors. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y111 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws679">Let us also consider a more serious sort of case, in which two models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws716">applicable to the same situation are either incommensurable or inconsis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14">tent. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>ave and particle models of the same phenomenon—the propaga-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96c">tion of light—lead to contrary predictions of behavior because they use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws838">different representational systems, inference rules, and processes for simu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96d">lation. General relativity and quantum mechanics are inconsistent with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d7">each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, as are classical and relativistic gravitation. W<span class="_ _2"></span>e might view these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdd">cases as analogous to the relationship between Euclidean and non-Euclid-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a0">ean geometries: the models in question have incompatible representational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8f2">systems and rules. Each may be apt for a wide range of cases individually<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c7">but their formal structure ensures that when they are combined, problems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws1a7">will occur<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws388">This may be puzzling from the standpoints of epistemology and truth </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws703">theory—I will examine whether it should be deeply and abidingly puzzling </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws96">in the final part of the book—but not from the perspective of psychology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75">Each model must use <span class="ff27">some particular</span><span class="ls11 ws96a"> representational system. And what </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cf">representational system is employed will be constrained by (a) the demands </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48f">of the real-world invariants to be modeled; (b) the general constraints of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsff">cognitive architecture (the specific set of types of representational systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws776">that are available to a mind like our own); and (c) pragmatic demands such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws382">as utility for providing understanding, calculation, and prediction. As these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bd">constraints operate to shape models <span class="ff27 ws0">individually</span><span class="ls11 ws20c">, we have no assurance that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff25 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws312">two models will turn out to be compatible with each other<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Models that </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
