<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf9c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="9c"><div class="pc pc9c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff30 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y5cd ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x78 h4 y892 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y893 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y894 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y895 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x1e h4 y896 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 yda ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">164 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 9 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff30 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">9.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Models in Psychology </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws277">The Scottish psychologist Kenneth Craik appears to deserve the credit for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws974">coining the expression “mental model” in the cognitive sciences. (And, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">even if someone else used it earlier<span class="_ _2"></span>, advocates of model-based approaches </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws479">trace their usage of the expression back to Craik.) In a passage oft quoted in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">the mental-modeling literature, Craik wrote: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y5cd ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4a0">If the organism carries a “small-scale model” of external reality and of its own pos-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y897 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws597">sible actions within its head, it is able to try out various alternatives, conclude which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y898 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws309">is the best of them, react to future situations before they arise, utilize the knowledge </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y121 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws975">of past events in dealing with the present and the future, and in every way react in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y899 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws976">a much fuller, safer, and more competent manner to the emergencies which face it. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y892 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">(Craik 1943, 61) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y893 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws368">Craik published this in 1943, considerably before investigations in arti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y89a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63e">ficial intelligence. Indeed, at the time, computing machines were largely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y89b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse4">shrouded in the secrecy of the wartime code-breaking project at Bletch-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y89c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7af">ley Park, though Craik was familiar with and wrote about control systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y89d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws86b">in two posthumously published papers (Craik 1947, 1948) and sought a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y89e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws977">physiological and “mechanistic” explanation for mental processes. He was </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y89f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws978">also writing long before evolutionary and adaptive approaches to the mind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a0 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws979">became popular (though, of course, this line of thinking had been pio-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a1 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws324">neered by W<span class="_ _2e"></span>illiam James [1890]), but Craik framed the problem of thinking </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a2 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws191">in terms of an organism coping with problems in its environment. Organ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a3 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81f">isms are able to do so intelligently<span class="_ _2d"></span>, according to Craik, through “explana-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a4 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws97a">tions” that allow predictions of what will happen in the world and as a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a5 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws830">consequence of various things the organism might do to act on the world. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a6 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws173">The abilities to explain and predict require external processes to be “trans-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a7 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83d">lated” into words, numbers, or other symbols, which are then used to “rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8a8 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97b">son,” and then “retranslated” into external processes, like building a bridge. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y8a9 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16">While Craik did to some extent explore the idea that such internal pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8aa ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25c">cesses operate on linguistic or verbal representations, his central explana-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8ab ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws308">tory strategy was to liken it to the construction and use of external models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8ac ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws873">Indeed, as I have done in this book, he paved the way to developing the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8ad ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">idea of a mental model by first discussing external models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y895 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws97c">By a model we thus mean any physical or chemical system which has a similar rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y9e ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws97d">tion-structure to that of the process it imitates. By “relation-structure” I do not mean </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8ae ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws97e">some obscure non-physical entity which attends to the model, but the fact that it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8af ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws97f">a physical working model which works in the same way as the process it parallels, in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y896 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">the aspects under consideration at any moment. (Craik 1943, 51) </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
