<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf9e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="9e"><div class="pc pc9e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8da ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x5e h4 y8db ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8dc ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y8dd ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xed h5 y8de ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y8df ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x64 h5 y8e0 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y94 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 yda ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">166 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 9 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24a">we think about electricity through “generative analogies,” importing an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4">understanding of a system of relations in one domain (such as water flow-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e3">ing through pipes) to another (electricity) through a process of “structure-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">mapping” (100). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8da ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws989">The analogical models used in science can be characterized as structure-mappings </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8e1 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws98a">between complex systems. Such an analogy conveys that like relational systems hold </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8e2 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws98b">within two different domains. The predicates of the base domain (the known do-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8e3 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws98c">main)—particularly the relations that hold among the objects—can be applied in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8e4 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws98d">target domain (the domain of inquiry). Thus, a structure-mapping analogy asserts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4cc ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws98e">that identical operations and relationships hold among nonidentical things. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8db ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">relational structure is preserved, but not the objects. (102) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8dc ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws694">The system of relationships, and the structural isomorphism between them, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8e5 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">can be represented diagrammatically (fig. 9.1). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y8e6 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a9">If we may interpolate the language of “mental models” used in some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8e7 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58b">subsequent publications (e.g., Forbus and Gentner 1997), the models are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8e8 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b4">what are schematized in the two diagrams and consist of an understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8e9 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a0">of the relations within a system, which are envisioned as residing in long-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8ea ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56f">term memory and used in reasoning and simulation (Forbus and Gentner </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8eb ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws562">1997). An “analogical model” would thus seem to be an understanding of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8ec ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ed">a system of relations stored in long-term memory that is <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ff31 ws0">formed<span class="ff2f ws7ed"> by the ana-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8ed ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">logical transposition of the structure of another model to a new domain. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y8ee ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8fd">There are clear similarities between this view of mental models and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8ef ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws780">one that I have described. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o possess a model is to posses a lasting abil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8f0 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86d">ity to think about a domain in systematic ways. The model is an integral </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8f1 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72c">unit, defined by the systematic interrelations of its elements, and provides </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8f2 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws877">ways of framing, reasoning about, simulating, predicting, and operating on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8f3 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws831">phenomena in the target domain. The postulation of <span class="ff31 ws0">multiple</span> models of dif-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8f4 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a1">ferent content domains not only is implicit in the separate descriptions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8f5 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83c">different models but is made explicit in Collins and Gentner (1983) and in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y8f6 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Forbus and Gentner’<span class="_ _2"></span>s discussion of qualitative models in physics: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y94 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws98f">The goal of most qualitative physics research is to build an idealized physical rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8f7 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws990">soner, a system that can reason with sophistication about the physical world in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8f8 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws991">way that the best human scientists and engineers do, without their frailties. This </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8f9 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws992">goal leads to a preference for systems that maximize generality and generativity. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fa ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws859">That is, the laws of qualitative physics are expressed in domain-independent terms, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fb ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws993">and knowledge of domains is expressed in situation-independent forms. It seems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fc ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws52a">likely that people’s mental models include laws and principles that are at least some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fd ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws994">what domain independent, as well as domain knowledge that is situation-indepen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fe ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws995">dent. But there is ample evidence suggesting that much of what people know about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8ff ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws996">the physical world and how they reason about it is more concrete than that. … </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
