<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa2" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a2"><div class="pc pca2 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y556 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2dd ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x22 h4 y125 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y966 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb3 h5 y967 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3a h5 y8af ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">170 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 9 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66f">Nancy Nersessian writes in a similar vein that “in standard philosophical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22">accounts reasoning is employing deductive or inductive algorithms to sets </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9af">of propositions. The understanding of deductive reasoning provided by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d6">classical logic stands as the model” (Nersessian 1999, 7). She notes a simi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws341">lar assumption in cognitive science and goes on to claim by contrast that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6dc">subsequent studies “sparked numerous investigations in different domains </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws747">that have led many cognitive scientists to conclude that much of human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8">reasoning is by means of ‘mental modeling’ rather than through a process </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of applying a mental logic to propositional representations” (9–10). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9b0">In his introduction to the collection <span class="ff31">Cognitive Models of Science</span><span class="ls18 ws9b1">, Giere </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65f">contextualizes several model-based accounts in this way in the course of his </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">synopsis of an entry by Nersessian in the same volume: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2dd ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b2">Most historically minded critics of logical empiricism took over the assumption that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2e2 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws497">scientific theories are primarily linguistic entities. The main exception is Kuhn, who </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2e3 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b3">gave priority to concrete exemplars over linguistically formulated generalizations. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2e4 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b4">Nersessian adopts a theory of “mental models” as elaborated, for example, by John-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2de ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws15b">son-Laird (1983). On this approach, language, in the form of propositions, may be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y33f ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws925">used not to describe the world directly but to construct a “mental model,” which is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y340 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b5">a “structural analog” of a real-world or imagined situation. Once constructed, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y346 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b6">mental model may yield “images,” which are mental models viewed from a particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y341 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b7">lar perspective. This interplay of propositions, models, and images provides a richer </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y80 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b8">account of the representational resources of scientists than that employed by either </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y347 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9b9">logical empiricists or most of their critics. It may be thought of as an extension of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y124 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9ba">model-theoretic approach to the nature of scientific theories as elaborated, for ex-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y133 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9bb">ample, by Suppe (1989), van Fraassen (1980, 1989), and myself (Giere 1988). In any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y134 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9bc">case, the cognitive theory of mental models provides the main resource for Nerses-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y135 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9bd">sian’s account of the dynamics of conceptual change in science. Some such account </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y136 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9be">of representation seems sure to become standard within a cognitive approach to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y125 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">philosophy of science. (Giere 1992, xvii–xviii) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y966 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws716">Giere’<span class="_ _2"></span>s and Nersessian’<span class="_ _2"></span>s approaches, which are important articulations of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y968 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws209">cognitivist approaches to science, are particularly sympathetic to my view </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y969 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9bf">that <span class="ff31 ws0">mental</span> models form the basis of scientific understanding. Other pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y96a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws612">ponents of model-based approaches use the term ‘model’ in ways whose </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y96b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8">cognitivist commitments are perhaps less obvious. Some deal with the use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y96c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ef">of concrete external models, such as W<span class="_ _2d"></span>atson and Crick’<span class="_ _2"></span>s tin and cardboard </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y96d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c0">model of the DNA molecule. Others use the term ‘model’ for analogical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y96e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws774">modes of understanding, including the use of diagrams, images, or simu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y96f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c1">lations (all standardly referred to as “analog” representations), or models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y970 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws973">based in actual <span class="ff31 ws0">analogies</span>, such as viewing particle collisions on the model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y971 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14c">billiard balls. The use of such analogies is often viewed as playing primarily </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
