<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa3" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a3"><div class="pc pca3 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xcd h5 y352 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _105"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ab ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ac ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x56 h5 y40a ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x36 h5 y3ad ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _106"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xf3 h5 y972 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y973 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xc9 h5 y53b ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x19 h5 y974 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y975 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _17"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3b1 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">171 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Other Model-Based Approaches </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28e">a heuristic role in theory construction and as being distinct from actual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c2">theories (Bailer-Jones and Bailer-Jones 2002; Hesse 1963, 1974; Holyoak </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87b">and Thagard 1995; Kroes 1989; Psillos 1995; essays in Hellman 1988). Some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65b">writers, similarly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, use the term ‘model’ for <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff31 ws0">simplified<span class="ff2f ws65b"> or </span>idealized<span class="ff2f ws65b"> character-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1">izations of natural phenomena used in the process of formulating more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e0">adequate theories and perhaps retained thereafter for ease of calculation. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c3">There are, of course, also mathematical models in the sciences, including </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">computer models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c4">While uses of the word ‘model’ are diverse, they reflect the common </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8">themes that scientific understanding involves the use of some kind of sur-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55b">rogate, be it mental or external, that has formal or structural similarities to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33">its target domain. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, while some particular uses of the word ‘model’ </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c5">may differ—referring to external models, or to modes of thought involving </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c6">analogy or idealization—the overall accounts in which they occur are more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51a">consonant with my cognitivist notion of modeling than at first it might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls10 ws0">appear<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y110 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a1">The difference between using an external model and using a mental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws703">model is not really all that great. External models are already in some sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d9">“mental,” in that they are <span class="ff31 ws0">models</span> only in light of how they are <span class="ff31">used in think-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff31 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">ing and reasoning<span class="ff2f"> (though, of course, they are not “</span><span class="ws0">purely<span class="ff2f ls11 ws85d"> mental” in the </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e9">sense that would imply that there is no external model). Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, often </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws518">when one uses an external model, one is in fact thinking <span class="ff31 ws0">about</span> the tar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws627">get system and not the model: one thinks about the target system <span class="ff31 ws0">through </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c7">the model. Similar things can be said about analogies like the billiard ball </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c8">model of particle collisions: while the model is <span class="ff31 ws0">inspired</span><span class="ls11 ws200"> by the collisions of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97b">actual billiard balls, one uses the model to think about collisions of gas mol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ca">ecules or other particles, and in practice the source metaphor is forgotten or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c9">becomes transparent. The person using such a model is thinking about gas </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53e">molecule collisions <span class="ff31">in the same way</span> that she thinks about billiard ball colli-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws384">sions, but she is generally not thinking about billiard balls at all in so doing. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70">Simplification through idealization is likewise already built into my char-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64d">acterization of models, and I do not regard this as a distinction between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws828">different modes of scientific cognition. Some models, theories, and laws </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b0">are more simplified and reflect their targets less exactly than others, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff31 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">all<span class="ff2f ws316"> involve bracketing and distorting idealizations (sometimes called “Aris-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ca">totelian” and “Galilean” idealizations, respectively<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in the philosophy of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">science literature). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1af">While some philosophers of science distinguish what they call models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsca">(e.g., visualizations, external models, or simplified heuristics) from laws and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cc">theories (sometimes distinguished as things that are framed as equations or </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
