<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa4" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a4"><div class="pc pca4 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x3 h5 y4f1 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x16 h5 y78d ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x65 h5 y265 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y976 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4b h5 y5f2 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd7 h5 y267 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y977 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">172 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 9 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws161">propositions), others view scientific theories themselves as models or fami-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d8">lies of models (van Fraassen 1980; Giere 1988; Suppe 1989; Suppes 2002; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9cb">though see the section later in this chapter on the semantic account of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse4">theories for clarifications about the notion of “model” used by some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws377">these writers). Still others treat models as complementary to theories, fill-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22b">ing in details absent from the abstract theory but needed for its application </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws117">to a more particular context (Redhead 1980; Morgan and Morrison 1999). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4aa">Again, for the most part, these verbal differences do not strike me as con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws977">trary to my claim that scientific understanding, including the understand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72a">ing embodied in laws and theories, ultimately depends on mental models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws487">W<span class="_ _2"></span>riters who distinguish models from theories often do so to emphasize </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26a">ways in which scientific <span class="ff31 ws0">reasoning</span> depends on models (Magnani and Nerses-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws818">sian 2002; Magnani, Nersessian, and Thagard 1999). If we need models as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c5">“mediators” (Morgan and Morrison 1999) between laws or theories (under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29e">stood as “explicitly formulated principles” [Giere 2004, 744]) and specific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34">contexts, then the <span class="ff31 ws0">understanding</span> of the theory requires such models. I have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72f">no wish to claim that science does not <span class="ff31 ws0">also</span><span class="ls11 ws25b"> include equations, propositional </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws399">representations, and symbolic operations over them. My claim is that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7d2">ability to work with equations and other symbolic representations in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cf">purely formal way does not itself amount to understanding of a scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">domain, and such understanding is supplied by mental models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws9cc">Another use of the term ‘model’ in philosophy of science, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15e">is distinctly different from mine. This usage is taken over from logic and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e">model theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. Model theory is used in the examination of formal systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws563">in mathematics and logic. A mathematical or logical system is a set of axi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47e">oms and their inferential consequences under the derivation rules of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12e">system. Such systems are <span class="ff31 ws0">formal</span> in the sense that they do not have interpre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67c">tations of the terms assigned. A <span class="ff31 ws0">model</span><span class="ls11 ws1ae"> of such a system is an assignment of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d7">interpretations to the terms of the system. In logic, this might be an assign-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws624">ment of a domain of objects to the referring terms and of relations to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51a">two-value predicates. In mathematics, the integers under addition would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9cd">count as a model of a group-theoretic structure with a particular type of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws767">operation and properties like transitivity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. A “model” in this model-theoretic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws697">sense can serve a number of purposes. It can be used as a heuristic tool </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws469">for understanding the abstract structure through a more familiar particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e5">mathematical system. But it can also be used to test the structure for proper-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ties like consistency and closure. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ce">The “semantic view” of theories in philosophy of science applies this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws265">notion of models to scientific theories. Different versions of the seman-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws457">tic view have been articulated by Suppe (1960), who takes models to be </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
