<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa5" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a5"><div class="pc pca5 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x6f h5 y3e4 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa3 h5 y1bb ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x30 h5 y3eb ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y978 ff30 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y979 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y97a ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9b h5 y97b ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">173 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Other Model-Based Approaches </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fa">set-theoretic structures, and van Fraassen (1980), who views models as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws708">state-space structures (a survey of variations on the semantic view can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c5">found in Suppe 1989, chap. 1). Proponents of the semantic view contrast </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ac">models with linguistic formulations of theories, and some versions of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws488">semantic view hold that a model and its target need to be isomorphic (van </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22e">Fraassen 1980; Suppes 2002) or partially isomorphic (Da Costa 2003) to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse8">each other<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But beyond this, the similarity with other notions of “model” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws880">ends. Model-theoretic models are <span class="ff31">truth makers</span> for theories rather than non-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1dd">propositional cognitive structures through which we understand a scien-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e0">tific domain. Such models are characteristically <span class="ff31 ws0">less</span><span class="ls11 ws44b"> abstract than the things </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20c">modeled. They are, in fact, special instances of the formal system for which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">they are models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y209 ff30 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">9.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Models in Theoretical Cognitive Science </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws557">The claim that model-based understanding is a key feature of human cogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws827">tive architecture is found most clearly in artificial intelligence and theoreti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws230">cal cognitive science. Some writers use the term ‘model’—or some variant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56a">of it, such as “scale model” (W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan 2006) or “graphical model” (Danks </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c6">2014)—as their preferred technical term. But there is an equally large tradi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56c">tion that postulates systematic nonpropositional structures that form the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b">basis of ordinary reasoning, but using other terminology<span class="_ _2"></span>, such as Minsky </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11">and Papert’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1972) “micro-worlds,” Newell and Simon’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1972) “problem-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9cf">spaces,” and the semantic networks, frames, and scripts I described in chap-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws521">ter 4. Those projects had a great deal in common with my model-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69f">account, particularly the ideas that understanding comes in domain-sized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95f">chunks and is stored in a nonpropositional form. Indeed, I count them as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e4">important pioneers of a model-based approach, and my acquaintance with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24d">them from the 1980s probably provided a substantial part of the inspira-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws423">tion for my own ideas. I will not, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, redescribe them here, as chap-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws24">ter 4 contains lengthy descriptions of some of them, particularly Minsky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">notion of a frame. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y174 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws710">At about the same time, David Marr (1982) published his influential </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws188">book <span class="ff31 ws0">Vision</span>, which provided an account of computational operations that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ab">might explain the processing of visual information from the raw perceptual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws824">array on the retina to a three-dimensional “model” of a scene. Marr uses </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c4">the term ‘model’ only for the final stage of the process—a three-dimen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws491">sional model that is object centered rather than viewer centered—though </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64d">the prior processing stage, the “2½D sketch,” might be seen as a viewer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d2">centered model of a scene from a perspective. These are “models” in a sense </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
