<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa6" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a6"><div class="pc pca6 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xe9 h5 y352 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y97c ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y972 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">174 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 9 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws253">more like Johnson-Laird’<span class="_ _2"></span>s than mine, as they are transient structures that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws791">change with the perceiver’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s perception and orientation. However<span class="_ _2"></span>, the abil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19">ity to construct such views requires the possession of visual modeling <span class="ff31 ws0">sys-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff31 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tems<span class="ff2f ws3aa"> more in accordance with my usage. Marr’<span class="_ _2"></span>s book is specifically about </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws956">vision and does not propose that mental models are an important unit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws331">in understanding generally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and one could not extrapolate a more general </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b9">model-based view from his theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, as three-dimensional visual perception </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws282">is perhaps the aspect of cognition for which models that share formal fea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tures of their targets are most obviously suited. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d0">Marr also introduced what has become an influential distinction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b4">between three levels of abstraction that are needed in understanding cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91d">nitive systems. The most abstract of these, which he calls the “computa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c3">tional” level, specifies what a system does and its function. The next level, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66e">the “representational” or “algorithmic” level, describes how it does them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws689">in terms of what kinds of representations it uses and the computational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e6">processes it uses to manipulate them. The third, the “physical” level, speci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws698">fies how the system is physically realized: in the case of human vision, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">neural structures; in the case of computers, the hardware implementation. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws332">This three-level system has been adopted widely by subsequent writers in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fb">cognitive science (though see Danks 2014 for some important clarifications </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">of its limitations). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws847">Discussions of cognitive architecture tend to be seen as involving Marr’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws744">computational or representational levels or the intersection between the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws150">two, addressing issues of the number and types of systems and at least a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws148">rough specification of the types of representations (e.g., models or propo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42c">sitional representations) they employ<span class="_ _2d"></span>, independently of questions about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d1">their neural or physical implementation; and at least to the extent that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws335">one accepts Marr’<span class="_ _2"></span>s classification of levels, my account is no exception. My </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45c">account is committed to the existence of model-sized units that do a certain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cd">amount of their processing autonomously<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and hence to at least some con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cc">straints on the kinds of representations and processes involved, and also to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91a">a separate system for language-like thinking, which requires different sorts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws548">of representations. I have not, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, proposed more specific features of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws206">the representations or representational systems or the algorithms that oper-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33d">ate over them. This is in part because I wish to present a model-based cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e2">nitive pluralism as a plausible and broad thesis, which is compatible with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a">various more specific hypotheses about the kinds of information-process-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws230">ing structures that might underlie the use of mental models. But it is also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61b">in part because I have a more guarded view about what “algorithmic-level” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58a">descriptions of such systems really provide: I doubt that cognition takes </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
