<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa7" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a7"><div class="pc pca7 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x32 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4d h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x12 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1ae ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97d ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xf4 h4 y7c4 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y497 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3fa ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y7a6 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 yda ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">175 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Other Model-Based Approaches </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d2">place through the <span class="ff31 ws0">application</span> of algorithms, though cognitive processes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bb">might aptly be <span class="ff31">described by</span> algorithms (much as I think that psychophysi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws261">cal effects are <span class="ff31">described by</span> the W<span class="_ _2d"></span>eber-Fechner laws, but ver<span class="_ _2f"></span>y much doubt </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws673">that this proceeds by the brain representing and applying a “rule” couched </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">in terms of logarithmic or power function equations). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a9">Some model-based accounts, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, are more specific in the type and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d3">nature of the models they propose, and I will briefly discuss two of these. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63b">The first is Jonathan W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (2003, 2006) suggestion that “scale models” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws795">play an important role in cognition. Like most proponents of mental mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e1">els, W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan frames his view in contrast to the “mental logic hypothesis” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53d">that “thinking involves the application of syntax-sensitive inference rules </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws462">to syntactically structured mental representations,” proposing the “alterna-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ed">tive hypothesis … that thinking requires the construction and manipula-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion of the cognitive equivalent of scale models” (2003, 259). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97d ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws59b">Images and scale models fall under the more general heading of physically isomor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97e ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9d4">phic models (PIMs), which are representations that possess some of the very same </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97f ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9d5">properties as that which they represent. Because forethought often requires the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y980 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9d6">truth-preserving manipulation of representations of three-dimensional spatial and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y981 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9d7">causal relationships, the PIMs that hold the most interest in the present context are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7c4 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">scale models. (Waskan 2003, 261–262; internal references deleted) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y497 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws416">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan begins, as I did, by considering external models such as construct-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y982 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws476">ing diagrams of situations on graph paper or building a model from Lego </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y983 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">blocks. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3fa ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9d8">Of particular interest is the fact that spatial representations can be used to generate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y88 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f2">predictions in a manner that obviates the need for rules (i.e., frame axioms) that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y984 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9d9">specify the consequences of each possible alteration to a represented system. One </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y985 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws990">might, for example, use a sheet of graph paper to represent the relative positions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y986 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9da">Harry, Laura, and Carlene. Should one then wish to know what the relative locations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y987 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9db">of all of these individuals would be if Harry moved to a new position, one can simply </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y79f ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9dc">delete the mark representing Harry and insert a new mark in the square correspond-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a5 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">ing to the new position. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y7a6 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9dd">Two-dimensional spatial media can also be used to represent the structure of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a7 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9de">objects, and collections of such representations can be used to predict the conse-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a0 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9df">quences of changes in their relative location and orientation. For instance, a card-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a8 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e0">board cutout of my coffee table (as seen from above) can be conjoined with two-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a9 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e1">dimensional representations (of equal scale) of the rest of the items in my living </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a1 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e2">room and a depiction of the room itself in order to predict the consequences of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a2 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e3">countless changes in the relative spatial locations and orientations of these items. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y988 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e4">A highly desirable feature of representations of this sort is that side effects of altera-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y989 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e5">tions to the representation mirror the side effects of alterations to the represented </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
