<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa8" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a8"><div class="pc pca8 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x30 h4 y242 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y42c ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y98a ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y98b ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y98c ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">176 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 9 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e6">systems automatically—without, that is to say, requiring their explicit specification. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e7">As a consequence, such representations exhibit, at least with regard to a limited set </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1f2">of dimensions, immunity to the prediction problem. They can, moreover, easily be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9e8">scaled up to include representations of further objects. (Waskan 2003, 262; internal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">references deleted) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y42c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9e9">As with other discussions of “analog” models, W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan emphasizes that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y430 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37e">scale models reproduce systems of relationships in their target domains, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y431 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ea">and that as a result, transformations on the models track transformations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y432 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws370">in their targets. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan emphasizes the importance of such models in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y433 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13b">“forethought”—in anticipating how the world will behave (on its own or if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y434 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8bb">intentionally manipulated) through simulation or other model-based rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y435 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">soning processes. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y436 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86a">Like Marr’<span class="_ _2"></span>s account of vision, W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan’<span class="_ _2e"></span>s theory is more limited in scope </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y437 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b2">than mine. It is broader than Marr’<span class="_ _2"></span>s, in that it includes rich possibilities </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y438 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9eb">of off-line cognition and anticipations of possibilities in the context of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y439 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws352">online cognition. But it is by its nature restricted to modeling spatial phe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70">nomena and hence is an account of only a subset of cognitive capacities. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws395">Like me, W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan does not deny that there is also language-like cognition, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws561">but I also hold that there are also a variety of nonspatial models that pre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82a">serve relations within, and allow nonpropositional reasoning about, other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71f">domains of understanding. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, W<span class="_ _2"></span>askan’<span class="_ _2"></span>s scale models seem likely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ae">to be, for the most part, “models” in Johnson-Laird’<span class="_ _2"></span>s sense, rather than </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y440 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws370">abiding frameworks for understanding classes of phenomena. However<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y441 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ec">the capacity to form and manipulate scale models presupposes a more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y442 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ed">general modeling system (or a collection of such systems) suitable to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y443 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">this purpose. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y444 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56f">In the most recent book on mental models in theoretical cognitive sci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y445 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">ence, David Danks (2014) argues that understanding and reasoning (or at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y446 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52a">least a great deal of it; Danks seems to offer different claims about the scope </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y447 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c7">of his view in different parts of the book) are underwritten by graphical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y448 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30f">models. The notion of a “graphical model” is considerably better defined </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y449 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws577">than most notions of models, thus rendering his theory more directly avail-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws960">able for testing against bodies of empirical data, an enterprise that occupies </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws955">much of the book. But the notion of a graphical model was not originally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws854">developed as a notion of a mental model or as a thesis about cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ee">architecture, and much of the point of Danks’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s book is to motivate the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">claim that it can nonetheless serve such ends. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y44f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ef">In the original sense, graphical models are a type of mathematical model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y450 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">used to represent statistical relationships between variables. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
