<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfa9" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="a9"><div class="pc pca9 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xf5 h4 y244 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y98d ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x4 h4 y98e ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y98f ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x15 h4 y990 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _107"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x77 h4 y991 ff2f fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y992 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y993 ff2f fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff30 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">177 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Other Model-Based Approaches </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f0">A graphical model is a family of probability distributions defined in terms of a direct-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f1">ed or undirected graph. The nodes in the graph are identified with random variables, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f2">and joint probability distributions are defined by taking products over functions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f3">defined on connected subsets of nodes. By exploiting the graph-theoretic representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f4">tion, the formalism provides general algorithms for computing marginal and con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws7a4">ditional probabilities of interest. Moreover, the formalism provides control over the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">computational complexity associated with these operations. (Jordan 2004, 140) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ff">A distinctive feature of such models is their uses of a “graph” in a technical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y389 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88d">sense of a structure of “nodes” representing variables and “edges” repre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38a ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9f5">senting probabilistic relations between them. (Diagrammatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, these look </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38b ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b8">much like the structures used to illustrate semantic networks and frames.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9f6">The framework is flexible, in that it can be adapted to an open-ended </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws684">number of contexts involving different variables and relations. Graphical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws786">models thus supply a kind of mathematical orthotic for<span class="_ _2"></span>, say<span class="_ _2"></span>, statisticians </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90">or economists reasoning under uncertain conditions, and Danks suggests </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y390 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86e">that the same kind of structure already exists in the mind as a fundamental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y391 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">feature of our cognitive architecture. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y98d ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f7">At their core, graphical models can be understood as compact representations of rel-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y994 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f8">evance relations, where different types of graphical models represent different types </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y995 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f9">of relevance (e.g., informational, causal, probabilistic, communicative). They thus </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y996 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9fa">address a key challenge for any cognitive agent: namely, determining what matters </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y997 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9fb">and, often more importantly, what can be ignored. The term “graphical model” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y998 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9fc">encompasses many different types of mathematical models, including Bayesian net-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y999 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws344">works (also called Bayes nets), structural equation models, random Markov fields, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y99a ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9fd">hidden Markov models, influence diagrams, social networks, command-and-control </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y98e ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9fe">structures, and more. At their cores, these models all have a <span class="ff31 ws0">graph</span>: a diagram of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y99b ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">nodes and edges that encodes the qualitative relationships. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y98f ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws62e">From a purely mathematical perspective, the nodes are simply objects, and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h26 y990 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9ff">edges can be undirected (A—B), directed (A<span class="ff34 ws0">→</span><span class="ws9b9">B) or bidirectional (A<span class="ff34 ws0">↔</span>B). (Danks 2014, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y991 ff2f fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">39–40) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y992 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36e">Danks argues that the graphical-model hypothesis can be used to account </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y99c ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45d">for causal inference and reasoning, provide a useful reconstruction of major </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y99d ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e6">theories of concepts, and explain decision-making procedures that effi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y99e ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws569">ciently use the relevance information encoded in graphs. Graphical mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y99f ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws692">eling, moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, encompasses a broad class of more specific model types, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9a0 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa00">differentiated by their features, such as whether they allow cyclic or only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9a1 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">acyclic structures. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9a2 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47d">Danks’<span class="_ _2"></span>s notion of a graphical model is broader than W<span class="_ _2d"></span>askan’<span class="_ _2e"></span>s scale mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9a3 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws652">els, as the latter are confined to spatial phenomena. It is both narrower and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9a4 ff2f fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws247">more exactingly developed than mine. In large measure this reflects the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
