<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfab" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ab"><div class="pc pcab w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x68 h5 y128 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xdd h5 y3ea ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y349 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff36 fs0 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _108"> </span> <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ls13"> <span class="_ _30"></span><span class="ls0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ydf ff36 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span>Chapter <span class="_ _109"> </span>10 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ye0 ff36 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="wsa04">The Plausibility of Cognitive Pluralism <span class="_ _10a"></span><span class="ws0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff36 fs0 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">10 <span class="_ _15"> </span>The Plausibility of Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e7">The most distinctive claim of cognitive pluralism is that we understand the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y128 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa05">world through many <span class="ff37">mental models</span><span class="ls11 ws5"> of different content domains. The claim </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y129 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17b">that cognition involves the use of a number of special-purpose systems that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3">detect, track, and allow interaction with different parts and aspects of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws876">world, taken by itself, may not be quite a consensus view; but many previ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws144">ous authors have claimed that the minds of nonhuman animals are com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a0">posed largely of a grab bag of useful cognitive tricks, and argued that this is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67d">a good strategy—and perhaps the only biologically plausible strategy—for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c">evolving intelligent animals. What is more controversial is the idea that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y130 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws686">a further proliferation of special-purpose ways of understanding various </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y131 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa06">aspects of the world is <span class="ff37 ws0">still</span> a good strategy once we have animals like human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y132 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws868">beings, who possess capacities for language and explicit reasoning. Really </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fc ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa07">there are two separate sorts of issues here. The first arises from the pecu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fd ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws802">liar disconnect we often see between discussions of human minds and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fe ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3da">minds of nonhuman animals. Often, even people who think that animal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ff ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d2">minds are composed largely of a bundle of closed instincts and good tricks </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y300 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws797">and acknowledge that human beings are products of evolution nevertheless </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y301 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">talk about human minds as though we had been designed from scratch to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y302 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws838">be general-purpose reasoners. This strikes me as psychologically naive and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y303 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25c">scientifically unrealistic. Second, even if we acknowledge that our capaci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y304 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8be">ties for reasoning, language, and language-like thinking are things <span class="ff37">added to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y305 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws717">an older suite of more specialized abilities, there are quite reasonable ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y306 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b8">tions about whether the newer and more sophisticated forms of thinking </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y307 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8fd">and reasoning also take the form of many separate areas of understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y308 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fd">about distinct domains, and whether this would still be a good design strat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y309 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1dc">egy for minds that are no longer restricted to developmentally canalized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">capacities that are products of natural selection. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
