<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfae" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ae"><div class="pc pcae w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xd5 h5 y150 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y891 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xac h5 y9ad ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x62 h5 y371 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y372 ff36 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9ae ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _10e"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">182 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>10 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws837">motley mix of the old and the new<span class="_ _2d"></span>, as in the case of the three visual systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d">humans possess, or the ability to extract depth information from multiple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa10">cues. This is something that I think the evolutionary psychologists have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b3">gotten more or less right: it would be downright astonishing if whatever </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bf">landmark mutations conferred our distinctively human traits <span class="ff37 ws0">also</span><span class="ls12 ws331"> resulted </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">in the loss of hundreds of millions of years of accretions of special-purpose </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">instincts. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws550">Another way of putting it is to say that evolution does not operate like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdd">an engineer<span class="_ _2"></span>, who can make large-scale changes between models and even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa11">go back to the drawing board and start from scratch. Evolution is limited by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws784">the range of mutations on genes that can produce organisms that are viable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws821">throughout their developmental sequence and capable of breeding. This </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81c">evolutionary constraint also sets a limit on how drastic a change can be in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91d">species that reproduce sexually: a mutation that produces greater success </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws309">for the individual organism in everything save breeding will not get passed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23d">on if the genetic changes make it reproductively incompatible with the rest </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws257">of the population. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e now know that mutations do not need to be as tiny </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55c">and gradual as Darwin supposed. But compared with engineering, evolu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wseb">tion is still a gradual and incremental process. When traits <span class="ff37 ws0">are</span><span class="ls12 ws560"> lost because </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws293">they no longer confer an adaptive advantage, this is likely to happen on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40b">the glacial timescale over which evolution operates on species. Perhaps our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d5">descendants will have progressively fewer special-purpose canalized mecha-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bc">nisms; but if so, the process will likely take thousands or tens of thousands </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa12">of years. (This is, of course, something that could change if we take an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">active role in altering the human genome.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y215 ff36 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">“Heritage” Traits Are Still Useful </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa13">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, it is by no means clear that <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff37 ws0">losing<span class="ff35 ls11 ws1a3"> some of these traits would be </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws197">a good thing. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>ake the reaction of disgust. Scientists now generally believe </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e0">that disgust evolved as a highly flexible mechanism for avoiding sources </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws362">of contagion, such as excrement, blood, open wounds, skin diseases, ver-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a8">min, and rotting tissue. The mechanism is triggered by many stimuli, oper-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e1">ates quickly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and makes it difficult to force oneself to come into contact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa14">with whatever is regarded as disgusting. Of course, sometimes it is triggered </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18">by things that are not really dangerous. Most slithery things are not really </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa15">dangerous. As I child I had a strong reaction of disgust to mushrooms, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44a">including the innocent and nutritious mushrooms used in cooking. And, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws952">as it turns out, leprosy—perhaps the paradigmatically disgusting disease </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa16">afflicting human beings—turns out to be among the least contagious of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">diseases. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
