<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfaf" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="af"><div class="pc pcaf w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x97 h5 y26b ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26d ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x43 h5 y162 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb0 h5 y270 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y557 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8b h5 y30e ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x42 h5 y732 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">183 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Plausibility of Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws670">A more precise knowledge of fields like biology and medicine can pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfd">vide a far more exacting understanding of what classes of things present </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">biological hazards, the mechanisms through which they operate, and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44f">protocols that would allow us to deal with them safely<span class="_ _2d"></span>. T<span class="_ _2"></span>o a limited extent, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c6">having such knowledge may allow us either to repress ill-founded reactions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11b">of disgust or perhaps even to edit the set of stimuli that provoke them. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20a">such knowledge does not cause the disgust reaction to go away<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and argu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c1">ably this is a very good thing. The capacity for disgust cannot be unlearned </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws92">because it is not part of a knowledge base that can be affected deeply by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c7">other things we learn. It is a deeply ingrained mechanism of its own. And it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa17">continues to be a <span class="ff37 ws0">useful</span> mechanism, one that could potentially save us from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c">sources of contagion—particularly novel ones—that we might not respond </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">to sufficiently quickly by way of our scientific knowledge. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws444">Or take the case of sex. Human sexual instincts are far more “open” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">than the hardwired programs for reproduction found in insects or in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa18">species of birds that have characteristic mating rituals. But they are an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws876">important motivational component in human reproduction. It is true that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws953">we can understand human reproduction far more accurately in biological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d4">and medical terms. But a being that had <span class="ff37 ws0">only</span> such scientific understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws225">of reproduction would have no intrinsic motivation to actually engage in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa19">reproductive acts. And it would probably be quite impaired at things like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6aa">identifying suitable mates and their availability to breed, as our ability to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws777">identify these in large measure depends on the operation of special biologi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3">cal mechanisms sensitive to cues involving biological changes (pupil dila-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a4">tion, increased blood flow to the lips and genitals) and behavioral patterns </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c4">indicative of gestational cycle and interest. (People <span class="ff37 ws0">could</span><span class="ls12 ws69c"> just ask each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d6">“W<span class="_ _2d"></span>ould you like to make babies with me?” but I will leave it to readers to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e4">decide for themselves whether that would be an effective sexual overture.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws720">When it comes to the things that natural selection really cares about, like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd">avoiding danger and producing offspring, evolution has provided a highly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws840">effective set of tools that it is difficult to improve on, the lack of which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">would leave us seriously impaired. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y148 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws186">Or consider the ability to detect and respond to social cues, which is so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44b">important to members of a social species such as our own. There are human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1a">beings, such as autistics, who are impaired with respect to these abilities. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52f">Some high-functioning autistics can learn <span class="ff37 ws0">about</span><span class="ls11 ws81e"> them by way of a kind of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82">theoretical reasoning and compensate to an impressive degree. But even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws823">they never fully compensate for the lack of elements of the maturationally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d8">normal cognitive tool kit that the majority of human beings possess. For </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1b">the rest of us, learning <span class="ff37 ws0">more</span> about social interaction by way of, say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, research </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
