<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb1" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b1"><div class="pc pcb1 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9ba ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _10f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xb7 h5 y9bb ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x15 h5 y9bc ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9bd ff36 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9be ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x73 h5 y9bf ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9c0 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _110"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y9c1 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws8ec"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">185 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Plausibility of Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f6">the interests that make them relevant, then understanding will come in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1c">“chunks” of corresponding size. Gravitation is a good candidate for a single </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13a">theory because it is the uniting feature of certain regularities of the motions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e5">of bodies, and ones we encounter in ways that matter on a regular basis, as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a4">well as because it turns out to be a single and fundamental force. If you mix </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76b">other things into a model along with gravitation, not only do you make the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws557">cognitive work unduly complex, but you also obscure understanding of real </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">regularities. But we may have use for more than one model of gravitation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3dd">some theoretical and others not. It is a good thing that we have an intuitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws530">understanding of falling bodies, which, while less accurate and projectable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32d">than general relativity or even classical mechanics, is better for catching </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws692">falling vases or avoiding falling off cliffs. And even in scientific contexts, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1d">we may need multiple models for phenomena like collisions at different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws70b">energy levels, partly because the particles themselves behave differently<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1e">and partly because the most useful ways we have of observing, conceiving, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">and acting on particle collisions differ with context. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y110 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66d">So we have a first reason for a plurality of models: <span class="ff37">the world demands it</span><span class="ls0 ws0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws485">There are many real patterns in the world, and the most efficient way—per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79d">haps the <span class="ff37 ws0">only</span> way—to model them is one by one. (There are often ways of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws417">combining them, such as vector algebra, but this presupposes already pos-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">sessing models of the individual forces.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y211 ff36 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">An Objection: Most Patterns Are Not Fundamental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e7">Now<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in some contexts, one might object that “many real patterns” can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1f">turn out to all be consequences of a single, more fundamental phenom-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33">enon. What we now call gravitation was once thought to consist of two dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws846">tinct sets of principles: one for celestial bodies circling in the heavens, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws181">another for falling bodies beneath the sphere of the moon. Electromagne-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88f">tism and strong and weak forces were all accommodated within quantum </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b6">theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, and many physicists expect there to be a unified field theory that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63c">will fold gravity into a single theory with them. This is a legitimate question </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51d">in philosophy of science, one that I return to in part 3. But it will not do as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">an argument about what is <span class="ff37">psychologically</span><span class="ls12 ws3c"> possible. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e4">Could God have made creatures <span class="ff37">ab initio</span><span class="ls11 ws905"> that thought about the world </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ec">solely in terms of the best theories we now possess, or a unified field theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cd">if there is such a thing? Perhaps. It’<span class="_ _2"></span>s never a good gamble to bet against </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b7">what God could do. Could an organism that thought in this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws391">in this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, be produced by natural selection? Probably not. Organisms that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72e">attained this sort of very general understanding would probably have to do </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f9">so the way we have: by learning models of many more specific phenomena </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
