<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb2" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b2"><div class="pc pcb2 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6e8 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _111"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xd8 h5 y78a ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xdc h5 y454 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y9c2 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x61 h5 y6e9 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3a h5 y2ac ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _112"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x1f h5 y1c0 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5b4 ff36 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5f8 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x90 h5 y457 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">186 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>10 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a1">first, and then reasoning and experimenting their way to something more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d6">general. W<span class="_ _2e"></span>ithout a plurality of such models, there would be no way to get </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ac">to the more general theories. And even for purposes of the sciences, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d7">more specific models—of electricity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, magnetism, particle collisions, nuclear </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa20">cohesion, planetary orbits, ballistics, and so on—are still used, and for good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40e">reason. A more basic theory may explain more particular theories as special </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws258">cases but may still be useless for capturing the regularities captured by the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e">more particular theories. Biological processes may all be a result of underly-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65f">ing physical processes, but neither evolution nor the Krebs cycle “pops out” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ed">of the physics equations, and attempting to reason about, say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the origin of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8be">species or even metabolism in quantum mechanical terms would be a very </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">bad way to go about it. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91e">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, a being that thought <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff37 ws0">only<span class="ff35 ls11 ws836"> in general and basic physical terms </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa21">would not be very good at interacting with its environment. The task of fig-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a">uring out what is edible or dangerous would be impossibly cumbersome— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f">and would not even make sense for an animal that did not <span class="ff37 ws0">also</span><span class="ls12 ws1e5"> have models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb2">of feeding and predation. And since there are domains that are <span class="ff37 ws0">not</span><span class="ls18 ws804"> special </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf6">cases of physics—mathematics, ethics, aesthetics—the organism would not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ff">be able to think in those terms. Which is to say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it would not be able to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ff">think about all the things we can think about. In short, appeals to the <span class="ff37 ws0">ideal </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws583">of unification are irrelevant to psychology: unification is an achievement </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74">that presupposes preexisting models, and a model that is “unifying” in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws126">sense of capturing the causal or compositional basis for other phenomena </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb9">is not necessarily a <span class="ff37 ws0">substitute</span> for them in thinking or interacting with the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23f">world. What is important for an organism is the ability to efficiently track </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77d">patterns that are <span class="ff37 ws0">salient</span>, not those that are <span class="ff37 ws0">fundamental</span><span class="ls11 ws39b">, and most of the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa22">salient patterns are not fundamental. Being able to understand increasingly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws276">fundamental theories allows us to think about new things, and to think </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws755">about them in illuminating ways, but it does not diminish the importance </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">of thinking about them in other ways. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y21a ff36 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Real Patterns and Affordances </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72a">I have spoken of mental models tracking “real patterns” in nature, such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35d">the gravitational attraction between two bodies. It is tempting—perhaps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws355">irresistibly tempting—to think of such patterns as “objective” and “inde-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d2">pendent of us.” And there are important ways in which there is something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89b">to this characterization. One of these is seen most clearly by comparing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ab">gravitation and the corresponding property of mass to a property like <span class="ff37 ws0">edi-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff37 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">bility<span class="ff35 ws80e">. Edibility is always an organism-relative property<span class="_ _2d"></span>. What is edible to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b3">one type of organism may not be edible by another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Meat is a potential </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
