<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb3" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b3"><div class="pc pcb3 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1c3 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y263 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e0"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x61 h5 y1c5 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc6 h5 y5ff ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x54 h5 y5f0 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5f1 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _85"> </span> <span class="_ _105"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x74 h5 y9c3 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xcb h5 y78f ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _113"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xdb h5 y9c4 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">187 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Plausibility of Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsea">meal for a lion, and a drop of nectar for a butterfly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, but not vice versa. Like-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cd">wise, what counts as dangerous, hospitable, or suitable for mating depends </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws396">on what kind of organism you are. So some properties, including those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws760">that are most important biologically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, are found neither in the organism, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa23">nor in objects in its environment, but in some sense at the interface </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">between them. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y106 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf6">J. J. Gibson, the founder of ecological psychology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, called such properties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff37 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">affordances<span class="ff35 ws914"> and would say that the nectar “affords eating” to the butterfly— </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d6">that is, makes it available in a fashion the butterfly can exploit (Gibson </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ec">1966, 1977). Affordances <span class="ff37 ws0">are</span> “real” in that they are not imaginary and in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws701">that detecting an affordance is not making a mistake but getting something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cb">right. They are “objective” in the sense that they do not depend on what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa24">anyone believes or how she feels about it. But they are not “objective” in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws294">the sense of <span class="ff37">being located solely in the object to which they are attributed</span><span class="ls16 ws670">. (In </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa25">one philosophical terminology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, they are not <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ff37 ws0">intrinsic<span class="ff35 ls11 ws4b2">.) Both metaphysically </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">and scientifically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, they are perfectly respectable on a par with gravitation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56c">though of course they are not fundamental, and many of them may not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">appear among the principal theoretical terms of any science. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e5">On the other hand, the <span class="ff37 ws0">concepts</span> and <span class="ff37 ws0">models</span><span class="ls11 ws4aa"> that we use to think about </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8">affordances can differ greatly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, from the standpoint of psychology<span class="_ _2"></span>, from the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws986">models we use to think about a <span class="ff37">world of objects and properties</span>. In particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66b">lar<span class="_ _2"></span>, an organism can detect and respond to affordances without conceiving </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws882">them <span class="ff37">as things</span> or <span class="ff37">as properties attached to things</span><span class="ls11 ws761">. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can think of edibility or </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57f">dangerousness as properties of things, to be sure. But even organisms that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a5">probably lack anything closely resembling human concepts or even object-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws738">oriented thought need to be able to detect and respond to affordances if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6df">they are to do things like eat and avoid danger<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Mosquitoes are sensitive to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws398">differences in levels of carbon dioxide in the air and use these differences </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fd">to navigate toward mammals to obtain a blood meal. They probably do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ba">represent any of this to themselves in terms of objects and properties but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws859">merely have circuitlike mental models in their tiny brains that allow them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75f">to surf the affordance trail. Much of our nonconscious cognition consists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73c">in affordance detection as well: we simply register that a particular surface </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8cd">does or does not afford a stable foothold and adjust our path accordingly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d1">for example. But much of our conceptual thought is oriented toward affor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws232">dances, too: we see a chair as a comfortable spot to sit down or a water foun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">tain as a potential source for slaking our thirst. When reliable connections </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f5">exist between features of the environment and particular things we need </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">or do, affordance detectors pick out real patterns as well. They are simply </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa26">real patterns that involve <span class="ff37 ws0">us</span>, with our particular set of needs, wants, and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
