<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb4" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b4"><div class="pc pcb4 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xbb h5 ya6 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y157 ff36 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y158 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _89"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xcc h5 y159 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc8 h5 y263 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xcc h5 y1c5 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf6 h5 y5ff ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9c5 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9c6 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbb h5 y1ca ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _114"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x9 h5 y9c7 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">188 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>10 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa27">capacities, rather than patterns that do not depend on us (or at least depend </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">far less on us), such as gravity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y200 ff36 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Real Patterns, Idealized Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50a">Models may <span class="ff37">aim at</span> tracking real patterns, but some of them fail. And those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e3">that succeed in biological terms—that is, track them <span class="ff37">well enough</span><span class="ls12 ws2e0"> to be of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa28">use to the animal—may not track them perfectly<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Which is to say<span class="_ _2"></span>, once </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa29">again, that models are <span class="ff37 ws0">idealized</span><span class="ls11 wsa2a">. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e have already addressed one type of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58f">idealization: the bracketing idealizations involved in isolating one set of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsec">features by ignoring others. But we have not addressed <span class="ff37 ws0">distorting</span> idealiza-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws884">tions, such as treating bodies as point masses or remapping wavelengths of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws624">light onto a subjective color space. Distorting idealizations can, of course, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e7">be a bad thing when we are confronted with situations in which the distor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws159">tions <span class="ff37 ws0">matter</span>. But in other cases, the very features that count as distortions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2b">can also enable easier comprehension and reasoning. And from a biological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2c">perspective, both evolved cognitive systems and ones produced by forms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b9">learning that are not regimented like the sciences are shaped by processes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws375">that converge on good-enough models rather than ones that are optimal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">for purposes of exactitude. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y20e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c4">Sometimes idealizations that distort by making simplifying assumptions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws182">are needed to make problems computationally tractable. And even when </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2d">a more exacting model is computationally tractable in principle, it may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23c">not be so for every actual mind. Some people can grasp Newton’<span class="_ _2"></span>s mechan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5db">ics but not Einstein’<span class="_ _2"></span>s; others cannot comprehend mathematical physics of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws695">any sort. It is a good thing that the vast majority of us have more intuitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws360">models (learned or unlearned) that allow us to predict the trajectories of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2e">falling bodies and to throw footballs. And these are good things for the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73c">mathematical physicist to have, too. Mathematical physics is more apt for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2f">rocket science but is not very apt for avoiding falling objects. Because there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">are several epistemological and practical factors that go into the aptness of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws324">a model, different models of the same phenomenon can be apt for different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">purposes, and hence it is good to have more. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e3">It is thus a wonderful thing that organisms like human beings are built </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e0">to form models that are <span class="ff37 ws0">useful</span> to them, and also that <span class="ff37 ws0">some</span><span class="ls11 wsa30"> of these models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35f">provide more exacting theoretical understanding. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e have to begin with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws811">models that have a great deal of <span class="ff37 ws0">us</span><span class="ls11 ws4fb"> built into them—affordance models, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa31">ways of knowing how to move about the world and how to manipulate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d1">objects with the particular types of bodies we possess, models that are cen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws488">tered on things like what is good (or bad) to eat, what is dangerous, who is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws200">friend or foe, and so on. Each of these provides a unique type of epistemic </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
