<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb5" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b5"><div class="pc pcb5 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7e h5 ya6 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1c3 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _ca"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xba h5 y1c5 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y4f1 ff36 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y264 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7e h5 y7bf ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _2a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y266 ff36 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y267 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xac h5 y9c8 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y269 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _31"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">189 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Plausibility of Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55d">and practical grip on the world and is useful for a particular set of purposes. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse0">But we are also capable of refining our <span class="ff37 ws0">interests</span><span class="ls11 ws2bd"> to things that are not of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws664">direct biological relevance, such as discovering increasingly exact and gen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws282">eral models of patterns in nature, in ways that have increasingly less of us </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fc">bound up in them—that is, models that are increasingly objective. In fact, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21b">we have acquired interests in an enormous number of things, and what we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff37 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">could<span class="ff35 wsa03"> form interests in appears to be remarkably open-ended. But to be able </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa03">to incrementally expand a repertoire of interests in almost arbitrarily many </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa32">ways requires us to be able to form models of arbitrarily many different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">domains. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y207 ff36 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Redundancy: Expected and Unexpected Benefits </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">One type of multiplication of models—redundancy—has particular advan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33e">tages of its own. One thing it does, of course, is to make an organism more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws762">resilient in the face of injuries that compromise one of the redundant sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ce">tems. But redundant systems do not function exactly alike. Redundant per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fc">ceptual systems like those for extracting information about depth respond </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa33">to different cues and hence are useful under different optical conditions. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2d">Redundant cognitive systems may represent their common target differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws256">ently<span class="_ _2d"></span>, thus conferring different inferences and breakdown patterns. And </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa34">when two systems with the same target produce conflicting results, this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws269">provides impetus for deeper empirical and theoretical investigation, both of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws180">the phenomena in the world they aim to track and of the cognitive systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">themselves. Redundant systems can be <span class="ff37">productive</span><span class="ls11 ws3d"> of greater understanding. </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y16d ff36 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Multiple Idealized Models, Epistemic Triangulation, and Compensation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y16e ff36 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">for Forced Error </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws328">More generally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, given that an organism is using idealized models of particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws244">lar domains, it is naturally beneficial to have an abundance of models. On </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse">the one hand, the bracketing idealizations of models imply that multiple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23a">models are needed to cover different aspects of the world. On the other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws692">hand, as we have seen, even a single model of one target domain can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws361">supplemented by another<span class="_ _2"></span>, idealized in a different way and employing a dif-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa35">ferent representational system. Different models can compensate for one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws321">another’<span class="_ _2"></span>s limitations. The result is a better understanding of reality<span class="_ _2d"></span>, not in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws986">the form of a single broader or more accurate model (though sometimes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48d">that results as well) but through a kind of <span class="ff37">epistemic triangulation</span><span class="ls12 wsa27"> of the world </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">through a number of different vantage points and lenses. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y17a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d9">In the extreme case, any given model may be subject to <span class="ff37">forced errors</span>: mis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws423">takes that are ensured by the way it processes and represents information. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
