<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb6" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b6"><div class="pc pcb6 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26b ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _115"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xd8 h5 y161 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y9aa ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xce h5 y9c9 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9af ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf7 h5 y7f2 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xba h5 y2b7 ff35 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff36 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">190 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>10 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws421">The production of standard visual illusions in the human visual system </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15e">would be an example of this. But conditions probably exist under which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws710">most or all models are forced into error<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Consider our deeply ingrained </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c0">assumption that every physical object has a determinate location at any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95f">one time. This assumption is encoded into classical physics, as well as the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws775">core object system, folk physics, and likely a lot of special-purpose models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws833">in between. And the assumption is safe unless we are faced with some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws906">the problems of quantum mechanics. In those cases, any representational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa36">system that is forced to represent objects as having determinate positions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">is forced into error<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28">Note, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, that <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff37 ws0">we<span class="ff35 ws28"> are not forced into these errors, even if particu-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws209">lar models we employ are. I can measure the lines in the illusory pair and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b3">confirm that they are of equal length. And with sufficient intelligence and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49c">training, I can understand quantum mechanical descriptions of the behav-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b">ior of electrons and abstain from insisting on the assumptions of intuitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscd">and classical models. What gives us the ability to go beyond the limitations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9cb">of a given model is the very fact that we can have <span class="_ _34"></span><span class="ff37 ws0">multiple<span class="ff35 ls12 wsa37"> models and </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa38">use them to triangulate the world more precisely<span class="_ _2d"></span>. If we could <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff37 ws0">only<span class="ff35 ls16 wsa39"> think </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsa3a">of physical objects through the core object system—or<span class="_ _2"></span>, for that matter<span class="_ _2e"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ca">through classical physics or quantum mechanics—we would lack some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse1">the cognitive flexibility that we in fact possess. So for anyone inclined to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws11d">suppose that a single-model cognitive architecture would be preferable to a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws338">pluralistic one, ask yourself the question: <span class="ff37 ws0">which</span><span class="ls11 ws7f2"> model would you choose? </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">And what would be lost in abandoning all the others? </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y118 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws567">I wish to conclude this line of thought by considering a particular appli-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws351">cation of it. Kant held that the faculty of Sensibility always organizes sensa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31c">tion in terms of Euclidean geometry—so far<span class="_ _2"></span>, an empirical claim about the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79c">psychology of perception. But he went on to use this in a transcendental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41d">argument to the conclusion that space necessarily has a Euclidean geom-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69c">etry<span class="_ _2"></span>. I think the argument is a valid one, though I think the conclusion (and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34">hence at least one of the premises) is false. One Kantian assumption is that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cf">“the world” we are speaking about in science is what he calls the <span class="ff37 ws0">phenom-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff37 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">enal<span class="ff35 ws2cf"> world: the world-as-interpreted-through-the-Forms-of-Sensibility-and-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws180">Categories-of-the-Understanding. So if the Forms and Categories force us to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62">represent any possible object of thought or experience in a particular way— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a0">say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, as located in a Euclidean space—then it is a necessar<span class="_ _2f"></span>y truth about the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws83">phenomenal world that any phenomenal object will have that property<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3b">And so <span class="ff37 ws0">if</span> we are forced to think about physical objects in Euclidean terms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws734">and cannot think of them in any alternative terms, then the phenomenal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff35 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">world (of humans) is indeed necessarily Euclidean. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
