<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfb9" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="b9"><div class="pc pcb9 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xf8 h5 y150 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y152 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y339 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9ce ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3c h5 y9cf ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">194 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42c">cognition alone. It provides a medium in which we can think different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48a">kinds of thoughts. It allows us to acquire models that nonlinguistic beings </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws367">could not acquire. And it provides a platform for new types of reasoning, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16">including not only syntactically based inference but also a variety of types </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c3">of <span class="ff3b ws0">critical</span> thinking that require us to think about thoughts (or their linguis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34c">tic representations) as objects in their own right. Animals with modeling </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14d">engines probably existed for hundreds of millions of years before language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12b">users appeared on the scene; but the addition of language vastly increased </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ca">the scope and power of model-based understanding. Some of the forms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">thinking that are built on the foundation of language are only hundreds or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">thousands of years old. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y208 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">11.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Cognitive Complementarity </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws743">Before turning to the distinctive features of human cognition, let us con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3dc">sider briefly some of the components of cognition and intelligence that we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa33">share with many other species. Evolved special-purpose mechanisms and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c3">the ability to learn through conditioning provide an ecumenical baseline </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws189">for most animal cognition, and both can be found in some form even in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a1">animals as simple as flatworms. There are other strategies that are far from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21a">ubiquitous but are found in different forms in a number of species: incorpo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54e">ration of the environment into the extended phenotype (insect hives, spi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws690">derwebs, beaver dams), social distribution of cognitive function (whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1c">in the different operations performed by different castes of ants, which pre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws640">sumably involve differential expression of a common genotype, or in social </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54a">animals like vervet monkeys or prairie dogs taking turns as sentries), and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67d">the possession of redundant neural systems (such as our multiple systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69a">for extracting depth cues) that not only increase resiliency but also extract </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bc">information relevant to the same ends differently and under different con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws849">ditions. Other advances have appeared more recently in our evolutionary </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa45">lineage, such the increased curiosity and capacity for exploratory play char-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a0">acteristic of mammals, and tool use, which is found in rudimentary form in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">a number of species but is enormously expanded in human beings. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y175 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b7">There are clearly interesting empirical and speculative questions in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28c">vicinity for cognitive ethology and evolutionary psychology<span class="_ _2"></span>, such as which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bd">species have particular capacities, when they might have appeared in evo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws241">lutionary history<span class="_ _2"></span>, what adaptive advantages each was selected for<span class="_ _2e"></span>, and how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43c">some might have been precursors or enabling conditions for others. What </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws625">I wish to emphasize, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, is a much more general point about how to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws583">think about the <span class="ff3b">relationships between</span><span class="ls11 wsa46"> different components of intelligence </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
