<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfba" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ba"><div class="pc pcba w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x4e h5 y1ba ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf6 h5 y1ee ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9d0 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x29 h5 y36a ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x32 h5 y2ab ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9d1 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x65 h5 y9d2 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ae ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _3e"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2af ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">195 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws790">that may initially have appeared as distinct watersheds in the history of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e6">cognition. And the point is that however they might have first arisen, they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws376">often exist today not only <span class="ff3b ws0">alongside</span> one another but also in <span class="ff3b ls18 ws0">complementary </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">relationships<span class="ff39 ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws586">T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo ver<span class="_ _2f"></span>y different types of complementarity deserve mention. The first </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8bd">occurs when each type of system does something that the other cannot. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cf">“Nativistic good tricks” provide an organism with ways of doing things that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31c">could not be learned through “blank-slate conditioning.” (Or even if they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws151">could be so learned in principle, the costs of having to learn them would be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws273">astronomically high.) For example, animals more or less <span class="ff3b ws0">need</span> developmen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44b">tally canalized ways of recognizing potential mates by responding to highly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws775">specific types of cues and likewise need to perform the mating acts typical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws126">of their species without having to learn them through observation or trial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws816">and error<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The vast majority of species also are born or hatched with some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws527">thing much closer to full adult capacities for perception and locomotion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e5">than human infants and <span class="ff3b ws0">need</span> to have such abilities immediately because </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws524">they do not have the benefit of an extended period of parental care. Being </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42c">able to learn through conditioning, by contrast, supplies precisely what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13c">“nativistic” abilities lack: the ability to increase the organism’<span class="_ _2"></span>s adaptive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d8">repertoire beyond what has been selected for and in response to demands </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e9">of its current environment, which is sometimes an environment that has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">changed significantly from that of its ancestors. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws159">But there is also a second type of complementary relationship between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9cd">canalized species-typical abilities and conditioning. There are some spec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws804">tacularly “closed instincts,” like the <span class="ff3b ws0">Sphex</span><span class="ls11 ws5d8"> wasp’<span class="_ _2"></span>s routine for depositing its </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws560">eggs in a locust it has paralyzed. But many “instincts” are more “open,” in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e8">the sense that they can be fine-tuned through conditioning. Some species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e9">of wasps, for example, can build respectable nests on the first try but build </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">better<span class="ff39 ws9c"> nests on subsequent attempts. A kitten has an instinct to pounce on </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws614">small moving things but becomes an efficient hunter only through prac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws364">tice. “Built-in” abilities and conditioning are in one sense distinct building </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws38b">blocks of intelligence, but much of an animal’<span class="_ _2"></span>s adaptive competence is a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">result of their interaction. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c0">Redundant systems—ones that provide parallel pathways to extracting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws347">what is at least roughly the same sort of information, such as the variety of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws737">ways the human visual system acquires information about depth—are also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22f">complementary with one another<span class="_ _2"></span>. Of course, one advantage redundancy </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28b">confers is that it makes an animal’<span class="_ _2"></span>s cognitive abilities more resilient if it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14e">loses one of the systems. A person who loses an eye can no longer use bin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58d">ocular depth cues, but there are a number of monocular cues left to draw </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
