<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfbb" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="bb"><div class="pc pcbb w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4f1 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">196 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa20">on. But different systems also exploit different types of information, so that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa47">they are useful in different contexts. Monocular accommodation (adjust-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c6">ment of the focus of the lens of the eye) and convergence (the different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws420">angles of the eyes when viewing objects at different distances) are particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws446">larly useful at close distances, monocular movement parallax (provided by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e5">moving the head) at medium distances, and linear perspective (such as the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71c">sides of a road converging in the distance) and aerial perspective (the blue, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa48">hazy look of distant mountains) at long distances. In a single visual episode, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d1">a correct estimation of distance may require the use of multiple cues, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6c9">dissonance between the information provided by two systems prompts a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">search for more information. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d0">While other species doubtless possess a modeling engine, and surely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a0">many can form models of things that we cannot because they are attuned </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c1">to different affordances in the world through different perceptual organs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c5">and forms of embodiment, human beings vastly outstrip other species in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa49">the number and variety of things we can form models of. Perhaps this is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws736">due in part to some difference in the neural mechanisms that ultimately </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f0">underwrite the formation of models or the greater sheer volume of such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa19">resources available in the human cortex. But it is just as plausibly related </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws114">to other abilities we possess that are complementary to model formation. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws299">Capacities for tool use have often been singled out as prime factors lead-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4a">ing to distinctively human intelligence, and the ability to use tools (and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95c">particularly to readily learn their uses, invent new ones, and pass them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9cb">on through social instruction) seems to go hand in hand with the abil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13e">ity to learn new models. In one way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, this is just obvious: one needs to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws721">learn a model for the use of a particular tool to employ it effectively<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cc">beyond this, there are connections to broader systems of models. On the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4b">one hand, we don’t just hammer or saw for the sake of hammering and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws523">sawing. These activities make sense, and the conditions for their optimiza-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57b">tion become manifest, only in the context of some further set of projects </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d">that require them. Hammering and sawing make sense only in the broader </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws735">context of building things through carpentry and the requirements these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa46">impose on shaping and joining particular types of materials. More gener-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4c">ally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, having an expanded range of interests, and models related to those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws297">interests, creates a market for a capacity to invent and use tools. On the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f3">other hand, tools expand our ways of recognizing and exploiting the affor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b9">dances the world offers, many of which would be not only unavailable but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ce">invisible to us without the requisite set of tools. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>ools thus change what we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bf">can have models of. This is perhaps most obvious in the case of scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws541">instruments. Microscopes, telescopes, prisms, and centrifuges all allow us </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
