<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfbc" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="bc"><div class="pc pcbc w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26b ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y180 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y30e ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8b h5 y6ed ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">197 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4d">to explore new phenomena and partition them in new ways. Experimental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">setups reveal new systematic relationships between variables. But no sharp </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4e">dividing line separates science from ordinary life here: simple machines like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws258">the lever and pulley supplied crucial transitions to modern mechanics but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9e">originated in more mundane ways, perhaps ultimately stretching back to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad">whatever capacities for tool use emerged in early primate ancestors, and are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws552">found today in less-developed ways in other primate species. Likewise, car-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws590">pentry tools opened up a whole new world of things that can be done with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10c">wood, which no one would have conceived of by interacting with trees and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">sticks using only their eyes and bare hands. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4f">Active curiosity and exploratory play<span class="_ _2"></span>, which seem to be characteristic of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ea">mammals and are also found in at least some birds, are also highly comple-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws906">mentary to the capacity to form and refine models. Indeed, being curious </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f0">in ways that motivate systematic exploration of novel objects and environ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws820">ments seems to be so well paired with the capacity to form models of new </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws278">content domains that it is tempting to suspect that there might have been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb6">a close historical relationship between them: that one was an enabling con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws339">dition for the other<span class="_ _2"></span>, or they coevolved, or if they appeared independently<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c9">each made the other far more valuable than it would have been in isola-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">tion. Exploratory play likewise seems to be well paired with the formation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws585">of models, as it allows models of interaction with physical and social envi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bf">ronments to be acquired and refined in a fashion insulated from selection </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">pressures. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ea">Identifying complementary relationships between cognitive systems or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa50">cognitive traits in present-day species can help to motivate further questions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws697">about their evolutionary history and how they interact in development. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws160">T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo systems may have appeared independently<span class="_ _2"></span>, and their complementar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws121">ity might be a happy coincidence. One system might be a necessary precur-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws388">sor for the other<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Or they might each have appeared initially in different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws396">and more limited forms, and their interaction might have provided the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32a">conditions for each to be expanded and shaped in ways that exploit their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws842">combined benefit. While I am enthusiastic about the project of exploring </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82c">such questions, I will not pursue them in any depth here. My principal con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d8">cern here is with the relationship between models, language, and language-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">like thought. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa51">In the case of the relationship between model-based cognition and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54b">natural language, it seems clear that model-based cognition and even the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48f">modeling engine appeared long before the capacity for natural language. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaf">The status of structurally language-like <span class="ff3b ws0">thinking</span><span class="ls11 ws6d9"> and its relation to public </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws687">language on the one hand and to mental models on the other are more </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
