<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfbd" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="bd"><div class="pc pcbd w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26b ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x22 h5 y26c ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y180 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf9 h5 y337 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y338 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y557 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xe6 h5 y164 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">198 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c3">complicated questions. It might be that there are (or were among our homi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c7">nid ancestors) species that possessed some measure of language-like think-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsa52">ing but no capacity for syntactically articulated public language. Conversely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws610">language-like thinking might first have appeared as a form of internalized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa53">speech and hence be found only among language users. It is also possible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa54">that the neural structures used for public language are the very structures </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57b">used for language-like thinking, but the public and private expressions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws329">these potentialities are in principle independent of one another<span class="_ _2"></span>, with the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bd">further possibility that just how fully each is developed may depend on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">presence of, and interaction with, the other<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f3">I do not have an optimistic assessment of the prospects for settling such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws819">questions decisively: assessing the <span class="ff3b ws0">forms</span> of thinking in prelinguistic chil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ef">dren or nonlinguistic adults is tricky business, and we have no way of test-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48d">ing the capacities of our long-dead hominid ancestors for either language or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws568">language-like thinking. However<span class="_ _2"></span>, even if we are unable to settle questions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws345">about origins and priority of appearance of baseline abilities, we will see </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws552">that there is nonetheless good reason to think that some types of linguisti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws249">cally based skills that can be exercised without overt speech are likely to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b8">acquired and mastered through the use of public language, often in ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e4">that also involve linguistic instruction and the use of written symbols. Base-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa55">line competence in public language provides a scaffolding on which further </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8fb">language-based skills can be erected. But all of this also depends crucially on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">the complementary relationship between language and models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e5">In the remainder of this chapter<span class="_ _2"></span>, I will first stake out a position on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws519">relationship between model-based cognition on the one hand and both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c3">language and language-like thinking on the other and then briefly explore </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42f">a number of ways in which the addition of language and language-like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e">thinking augments and transforms the forms of thinking available through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">model-based cognition alone. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y219 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">11.2 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Language and the Priority of Models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws540">One clear feature of language and language-like thinking that distinguishes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws531">them from models is their <span class="ff3b ws0">form</span><span class="ls11 ws818">. Language is a medium characterized by a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4de">syntactic structure and a stock of lexical elements that can occupy syntactic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc">slots. Models, of course, also have their own kinds of “formal shape,” but it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21">is not one characterized by sentence-like structures or transformational and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e2">inferential rules that operate on their syntax. In a model, the conceptual ele-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81a">ments of the model are constitutively tied to the inferential rules, and also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws259">to ways of interacting with the world. In language, we can combine lexical </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
