<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf13" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="13"><div class="pc pc13 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y1ba ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bb ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _45"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x5b h5 y1bc ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x59 h5 y1bd ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1be ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _46"> </span><span class="ffe"> <span class="_ _35"></span></span> </div><div class="t m0 x8 h5 y1bf ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _47"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1c0 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x85 h5 y1c1 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">13 <span class="_ _1e"></span>A Standard Philosophical View of Cognitive Architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15b">of beliefs that are properly basic. There are a variety of proposals for what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15c">might make a belief count as properly basic, such as being self-evident or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15d">being produced by a reliable perceptual mechanism; but the basic <span class="_ _29"></span><span class="ffe ws0">units </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15e">relevant to the foundationalist account are beliefs and inference patterns </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws15f">ranging over beliefs. Coherentists hold that a belief is warranted by being a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws160">part of a coherent set of beliefs. Again, there are various proposals for just </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws161">what kinds of relations count as “coherence,” though consistency is gener-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws162">ally deemed to be a minimal necessary condition. But the relevant relata </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">are individual beliefs. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws163">A third and more recent theory of knowledge is <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ffe ws0">reliabilism<span class="ffc ls11 ws164">. Reliabilists </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws165">hold that a belief is warranted if it is produced by a reliable mechanism. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws166">(A paradigm case would be the production of beliefs through reliable per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws167">ceptual mechanisms under standard perceiving conditions.) It is perhaps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws168">less clear whether this introduces other types of cognitive phenomena, in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12f">addition to beliefs, that might need to be included in a cognitive architec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws169">ture for knowledge. On the one hand, we might take the basic relata of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16a">reliabilist theory to be beliefs and the states of affairs that produce them. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16b">On the other hand, we might take the <span class="ffe ws0">mechanisms</span><span class="ls11 ws16c"> of belief production to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16d">be among the relata, in which case we are then faced with the question </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16e">of whether they should be counted as part of <span class="ffe ws0">cognitive</span><span class="ls11 ws16f"> architecture, or as </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws170">something noncognitive or even extramental that is nonetheless relevant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">to warrant. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y116 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws171">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e should note, however<span class="_ _2e"></span>, that with some <span class="ls11 ws172">beliefs, both their truth and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws173">their warrant may not depend on relations to extramental states of affairs. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws174">These are beliefs that are true because of the meanings of the concepts and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15c">the relationships between them. Propositions like “dogs are animals” and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws175">“triangles are three angled” seem to be true <span class="ffe">by definition</span>, and we can <span class="ffe ws0">know </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws176">them to be true simply by analysis, based in our mastery of conceptual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">semantics. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws177">Semantics is concerned with meaning, and both concepts and beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws178">have semantic properties. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, concepts are constituents of beliefs, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws179">and the semantic properties of a belief (or the proposition believed) are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17a">generally understood to be a function of those of its constituent concepts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17b">plus the logical (or grammatical, or syntactic) form of the proposition (with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20">a few important caveats, such as that reference may also depend on con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17c">text). There are important disputes about the basis of semantic properties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b">(e.g., that they are based in something internal to the mind, such as sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17d">data, or they latch onto things in the world by direct reference), and also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17e">about the level of organization at which they appear<span class="_ _2d"></span>. <span class="_ _48"></span><span class="ffe">Semantic atomists<span class="ffc ls10 ws17f"> hold </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws180">that some concepts (semantic atoms) are the most basic bearers of semantic </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
