<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfbe" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="be"><div class="pc pcbe w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4f1 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xfa h5 y265 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y791 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x43 h5 y6e4 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">199 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0">items regardless of their origins or constitutive semantic inference patterns. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d1">In this sense, language and language-like thought are “domain general.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa56">The same linguistic structures and rules are applied to representations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws287">of various content domains and can be used to combine elements refer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18e">ring <span class="_ _35"></span>to different domains. On this point, advocates of central cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac">and a language of thought had something right: human cognition involves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa57">more than the ability to think about particular domains in domain-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws213">specific ways, and this is true even if we recognize that domain-specific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws872">understanding can take the form of learned models and not just modules </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws373">that are developmentally canalized and appear principally in perceptual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">preprocessing. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64b">If you were to include within the scope of the word ‘language’ every-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse2">thing that might appear in a text on language or linguistics, it would cut </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d5">a wide swath: not only syntax and semantics but pragmatics, phonetics, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1dd">phonemics, prosody<span class="_ _2d"></span>, dialect, and so on. Of course, much of what would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d8">thus be regarded as “parts of” natural language would not be parts of lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84">guage-like <span class="ff3b ws0">thought</span>, as the list includes acoustical and pragmatic features of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cc">public languages. Because I have characterized “language-like thought” as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws466">a form of thinking with structural units analogous to those of language, it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7df">would have to involve syntax, or at least something structurally analogous </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64c">to syntax. And there are specialized uses of the word ‘language’ that require </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws953">no more than this, as when we speak of “formalized languages.” So there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">are “thin” notions of language that treat it simply as a system of syntactic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws699">structures, (uninterpreted) lexical types and tokens, and perhaps generative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">and inferential rules defined over these. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a0">Philosophers have generally assumed that language-like thought would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb1">also have to include more or less the same semantic elements found in nat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws257">ural language as well. And in one sense this is clearly correct: by and large, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa58">when we think in a language-like form, we are not dealing with a purely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws495">formal language. But just how much of what we call “semantics,” even with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85f">respect to public languages, is really <span class="ff3b ws0">linguistic</span><span class="ls11 ws763">? The question is not yet clear<span class="_ _2"></span>, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa59">as we have yet to specify the boundaries of what to count as “linguistic.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e4">But in the present context, where we are asking what the addition of lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84a">guage or language-like thinking adds to the cognitive resources of beings </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws336">who already possess model-based cognition (or whose ancestors did), we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53a">have some reason to draw the boundaries of the “truly linguistic” more nar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3">rowly than we might in other contexts. If, as I have suggested, inferential </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3e3">semantics is grounded in models that are not themselves language-like, a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55e">good portion of what we call semantics is not “linguistic” in the sense of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">having its origins in distinctively linguistic capacities. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
