<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfbf" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="bf"><div class="pc pcbf w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y162 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xcf h5 y26f ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _61"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x84 h5 y337 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y55a ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">200 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8d0">Consider an example. Suppose I am told (in language), “Napoleon was </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws196">short and vain.” Understanding this sentence allows me to make a variety </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws144">of inferences: that Napoleon was short, that he was vain, that he was less </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e5">than seven feet tall, that he would be likely to react badly to criticism, that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fa">there was at least one person who was both short and vain, and so on. How </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6f1">much of this understanding is a result of either linguistic competence or a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20c">capacity for language-like thinking? Of course, the mere ability to parse the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa07">sentence and make any sense of it at all requires competence in English. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b8">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, inference from a sentence of the form “x is P and Q” to “x is P” or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bc">to “there is something that is P and Q” might well be based on understand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d0">ing how the language works, and likewise for any syntactically based infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws356">ences I might make using it as a premise. But my understanding of what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d">heights are counted as short when dealing with human beings, or what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">vanity is, or how a vain person is likely to respond to criticism is based not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1da">in truly linguistic competence but in having models of the relevant content </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49c">domains. A person can have perfectly good linguistic competence and lack </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27a">the knowledge of a particular content domain that he or she would need to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">make a semantically based inference. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5a">The lexical items in a public language or a system of language-like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa44">thought do indeed somehow tap into the separate forms of understand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd">ing afforded by models: linguistic utterances and language-like thoughts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa29">can <span class="ff3b ws0">express</span> what I <span class="ff3b ws0">understand</span> through models. And if someone is learn-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31e">ing a language, part of what she has to learn is what lexical items tap </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78">into which models. Someone learning English as a second language, for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws970">example, may already have a mental model of vanity but not know that it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5b">is expressed in English by the word ‘vanity’. But if the problem is that she </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws680">is a competent English speaker but has somehow never formed an under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">standing of vanity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, this problem cannot be corrected by further learning of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws917">the <span class="ff3b ws0">language</span>. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, she needs to become familiar with the phenomenon </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85a">of vanity and form a mental model that tracks its salient characteristics. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54">Someone whose social cognition was impaired in ways that rendered her </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5c">incapable of understanding vanity might be able to learn what sorts of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89c">things people say about people labeled “vain” and mimic them, but this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d">would not amount to an understanding of vanity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. She would merely be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45">faking it when the conversation strays onto that topic. Her deficit in social </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d6">cognition, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, need not imply any impairment of her competence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws291">in language. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5d">For purposes of exploring the relationship between model-based cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5e">nition, language, and language-like thinking, I will therefore construe </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws296">“language” in a fairly “thin” way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, excluding from it forms of thinking and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
