<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc0" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c0"><div class="pc pcc0 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4f1 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa1 h5 y5f2 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y494 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e4 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9d3 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _3d"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">201 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5f">inference whose basis lies in model-based cognition. Of course, there are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf4">other contexts in which it would make sense to adopt a “thicker” construal, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa60">one in which “language” includes all that can be expressed in language, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws286">what one can do with language, and so on. My aim is not to make a claim </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws717">about the range of ordinary or technical uses of the word ‘language’ but to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67c">try to distinguish what contributions are made to cognition and reasoning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3">by the capacities for language and language-like thinking over and above </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws496">those grounded in model-based cognition. And in this sense, language and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws810">language-like thinking are representational media characterized by syntac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46e">tic structure and lexical elements typed according to what syntactic slots </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">they can occupy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44">Once we have characterized language and language-like thought in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39f">fashion, two implications that might otherwise be surprising seem clearly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws648">to emerge. The first is that much and perhaps all of what we think of as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws138">“semantics” does not really arise out of language at all. Many (perhaps all) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34c">truly semantic connections arise out of models. Lexical units can express </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">and encode such semantic properties, but without models, language would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1eb">be largely devoid of semantic content. And this leads to the second impli-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa61">cation: without such a relationship with mental models, language and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bd">language-like thinking would be of little use and would confer little or no </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4">adaptive advantage. They would be something analogous to purely formal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws168">languages, in which the symbols can be rearranged syntactically but have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws849">no further connection to one another or to the world. And if this is true, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws255">it is no accident that a capacity for language arose only once model-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">understanding was firmly in place. Language contributes a great deal as an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26e">addition to model-based cognition but confers little or no adaptive advan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tage without it. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y217 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">11.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Two Objections </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws260">Before passing on to further discussion of the relation between language, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1da">language-like thinking, and models, let us consider two possible objections. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa62">The first comes from the computationalists, who would likely concede that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff3b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">natural<span class="ff39 ws193"> language is a recent and uniquely human trait, yet also claim that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52b">thinking in general must take place in some sort of language of thought, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5cd">even if it must be in some ways very different from public language. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd2">second is implicit in discussions of causal semantics: that what we need for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws398">a semantically pregnant language (whether public or private) is not a sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c6">tem of mental models but merely reference-fixing relations for lexical units </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">in a language-like representational medium. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
