<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc1" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c1"><div class="pc pcc1 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9d4 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9c"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">202 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">Computationalism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa63">In the last section, I claimed that merely possessing an internal “lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa64">guage”—in the thin sense of a system with syntactic structure and some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa65">set of syntactically based techniques for producing symbol strings from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws743">other symbol strings—would not confer semantic understanding. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o this, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ac">advocates of the computational theory of mind might point out that T<span class="_ _2"></span>ur-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws705">ing showed us how syntactic operations can be made to track semantic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c1">relations, and this was the first (and perhaps the only) proposal for how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37c">there could be meaning-respecting mental processes that do not require </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e4">a magical semantic interpreter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. After all, some of the early explorations of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">model-based views of semantic understanding—Minsky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s frames and other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws135">projects in AI that took place around the same time—were implemented </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e5">in digital computers, and whatever semantic competence (or simulation of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8af">semantic competence) they demonstrated was ultimately based in syntacti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">cally driven computations. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa13">However<span class="_ _2"></span>, note that the sort of “syntax” involved in such systems is <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff3b ws0">not </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d5">the syntax of the natural language in which the input and output sentences </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bc">are couched. Such “syntactic” processes are machine language operations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws535">operating over binary digits that are not themselves representational at all. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5db">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e must therefore be careful to distinguish two senses in which computa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws352">tional processes might be called “linguistic” or “language-like.” One thing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws741">this might mean is that the computer has been programmed to support </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws151">representations in a form something like a natural language and to perform </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa66">operations on these—that it has representational types that are at least struc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws856">turally analogous to sentence types or judgment forms. This is an important </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51e">goal of artificial intelligence, but it is a feature absent from most of what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws390">the majority of computers do. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e do speak of “the machine language” of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws202">particular computer and call the rules of the operating system “syntactic.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ff">But what we mean by this is not that the symbolic units are structurally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a1">analogous to sentences or judgment types. The syntactic forms of machine </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws277">languages have little in common with those of natural languages, and all </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa67">that is really meant in calling them “syntactic” is that they are nonsemantic. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws408">So when we speak of computers essentially being devices that manipulate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws715">symbols according to syntactic rules, what we really mean is that programs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws146">have their own distinctive forms of symbols and syntax, and this ultimately </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c9">drives the performance of the computer<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This is quite generally true of com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75d">puters—indeed, it is close to being a definition of digital computation—but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa60">it does not require the use of anything analogous to a natural language. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96">Program languages, particularly those that operate at the most fundamen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tal level of bitwise operations, bear little resemblance to natural languages. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
