<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc3" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c3"><div class="pc pcc3 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xa6 h5 y3e4 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bb ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bc ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1bd ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _117"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xb h5 y3ed ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd8 h5 y9dc ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y78b ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">204 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws284">reference of names and kind terms is fixed. In particular<span class="_ _2"></span>, there have been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws578">several variations on the general notion that reference is fixed through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">causal relations: Kripke’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1980) baptismal account, Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1987) causal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6c">covariation account, and Dretske’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1987, 1988) teleofunctional account in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f3">which the meaning (i.e., reference) of a term is what it has the function </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e7">of indicating. For our purposes, what matters is the possibility that such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws685">accounts might supply a language-like system of mental representations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws762">with semantic content <span class="ff3b ws0">without</span> recourse to non-language-like units such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">mental models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64c">Let us assume, for purposes of argument, that some sort of causal or tele-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a3">ofunctional relation is sufficient for fixing references of names (or name-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc0">like mental representations) and kind terms (or concepts tracking kinds). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws714">(Indeed, I think such theories have at least some grain of truth, which I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64">expand on in chapter 16, though I think such stories make sense only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1a">within a broader story about mind and world.) This supplies an explana-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">tion of semantic competence only to the extent that semantic competence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">is confined to reference—that is, to tracking individuals and kinds. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws884">But clearly this is a much thinner and more limited notion of semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ec">than what motivated the need to posit things like mental models. Semantic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">understanding<span class="ff39 ws47b"> is not simply a matter of being able to name or track classes </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22c">of things; it also involves being able to grasp their characteristic proper-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6d">ties, relations, behaviors, and transformations. Even if we suppose that, in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws805">coining a term or concept for water<span class="_ _2"></span>, I thereby come to track a particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66d">type of stuff, and even to pick out <span class="ff3b ws0">that</span><span class="ls11 ws5ab"> kind of stuff in all possible worlds, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws621">it by no means follows that I thereby gain any <span class="ff3b ws0">understanding</span><span class="ls12 ws5e6"> of that kind </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws302">of stuff. Indeed, it implies neither (1) that I gain a grasp of the properties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6e">that kind of stuff really has (which is, in fact, an important part of the stan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90f">dard development of such accounts) nor even (2) that I have any particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws231">“folk” understanding of its nature or how it behaves. Whatever forms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd3">understanding I might have must be reflected in a systematic set of ways of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5e8">representing and making inferences about it—the very sort of thing that I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e5">have argued requires a mental model. Not only is no such model ensured </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6f">by the kind of causal relation that is supposed to secure reference, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72a">according to such theories, it would have to be to some extent <span class="ff3b ws0">independent </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa70">of reference, as I and my T<span class="_ _2"></span>win Earth doppelgänger are supposed to have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws889">isomorphic models that differ only with respect to reference. Not only do </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fb">causal accounts of reference not supply a way to explain such inferential-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5">semantic competence, but their standard development ensures that they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a2">are independent of it. If there is any illusion that they obviate the need for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">something like mental models, it is only because discussions of them have </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
