<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc4" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c4"><div class="pc pcc4 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb1 h5 y9dd ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9de ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9df ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9e0 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9e1 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9e2 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">205 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c7">sometimes redefined ‘semantics’ in narrower terms that exclude inferential </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">dispositions from the domain of semantics. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws302">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, while causal accounts do not make reference a consequence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8b8">of mental models, they do not make it a consequence of language either<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa35">Generally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, what is supposed to secure the reference of a concept is some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ec">kind of causal relationship with things outside the mind, generally through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa71">perception. According to causal theorists, what makes a concept mean </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b9">“cow” is not the fact that it can be embedded in particular syntactic struc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f7">tures or manipulated through formal inference techniques, but the fact that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34e">its tokening is caused in the right sorts of ways by cows. And what assures </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf0">this is not the language-like structure of Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s central cognition, but the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">encapsulated processes of his perceptual modules. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y209 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">11.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">What Language Adds </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws329">What sorts of cognitive benefits does possessing public language and lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws800">guage-like thinking confer that could not be had through model-based cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws538">nition alone? In this section, I discuss a number of these benefits, with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa72">attention to how they complement model-based cognition, both in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws955">sense of adding things that cannot be had using models alone, and in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f0">sense of how the two types of thinking interact to add up to something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">more than the sum of the parts. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9b8 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Communication and the Acquisition of Models through Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9b9 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa00">The most obvious advantage afforded by public language is that it allows </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y889 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55d">for communication in ways that models do not. It is possible to build inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e1">subjectively available external models for some things we think about, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4eb">sometimes these are essential for instruction, communication, and joint </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ca">attention; but external model building alone would be an extremely cum-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws134">bersome form of communication. But we should also make an important </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46b">distinction here between linguistic communication of propositions about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws230">domains that speaker and hearer both already understand in similar ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y890 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d9">and the use of language in the process of teaching one another the use of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6dd ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">new models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6de ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa73">A great part of everyday linguistic communication involves the exchange </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y312 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws527">of information already framed in terms of models that both speaker and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6df ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws260">hearer already understand. If I say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, “There’<span class="_ _2"></span>s another big storm coming in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e0 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42e">tomorrow<span class="_ _2d"></span>,” and you understand the local weather patterns this time of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e1 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws134">year<span class="_ _2"></span>, this may communicate something rich in specific implications. In a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e2 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws52e">New England winter<span class="_ _2"></span>, a neighbor who heard and believed it might expect a </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
