<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc5" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c5"><div class="pc pcc5 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y56d ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa3 h5 y56e ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y33a ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbf h5 y33d ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">206 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5ff">substantial snowstorm, stock up on salt and gasoline for the snowblower<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25d">and so on. Someone uttering the same sentence in Florida in summer<span class="_ _2"></span>, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws712">in the Arabian desert, would likely mean something quite different, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d4">uptake would require models of different sorts of meteorological events. If </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws929">I posted the sentence on a blog and followed it with “What should I do to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws671">prepare?” readers who did not know my location or did not understand the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws267">relevant type of thing called a storm would not know how to advise me (in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6db">one case, because they would not know which model to apply<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in the other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">because they would lack such a model). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b3">The purely communicative use of language generally succeeds only to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f">the extent that speaker and hearer already share the kind of frame of ref-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3">erence provided by a mental model. When models are shared, a compact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa74">utterance can provide enough information for a rich set of inferences. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b">without such a shared understanding, there is unlikely to be uptake about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws758">the implications or even the sense and reference of the lexical items. If I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws54">read a random sentence from a book on a topic I know nothing about, I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e9">can probably recognize it as a grammatical sentence but will have no real </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c7">understanding of what it is saying. It is the models that lie in the back-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e1">ground that generate a space of possible <span class="ff3b ws0">sensible</span> representations in lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7a4">guage. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o understand what is meant, I may have a great deal of work to do </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">acquiring the requisite models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa75">But to do so, I need not engage in a process of rediscovery de novo. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws135">Language can also provide more efficient means for guiding me through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws283">the process of model acquisition. Indeed, the art of using language in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65a">manner is precisely what is needed for a good explanation or the composi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1dd">tion of a good textbook. In some cases, a really good verbal explanation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa76">may be all the external prompting a reader or hearer needs to form a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d0">that at least roughly corresponds to the speaker’<span class="_ _2"></span>s or writer’<span class="_ _2"></span>s. In other cases, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws858">language may at least play important assisting roles, such as pointing out </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws474">where the important variables lie or correcting or sharpening the learner’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c7">understanding. Learning a manual skill, a form of dance, or the structure of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38">a new type of music probably cannot take place without exposure to, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fc">practice with, the domain of study<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and things like mimesis, pointed rep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws408">etition, and reshaping of what the student is getting wrong may be indis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws649">pensable. But even these can often be greatly aided by the use of verbal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws847">prompting. (“Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou are swinging the hammer from the side and bending the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82a">nail rather than driving it in.” “In this style of playing the jig, the accents </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa77">go on the first and third of six beats, not the first and fourth.”) Commu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66a">nication using terminology based in other<span class="_ _2"></span>, <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff3b ws0">already-shared<span class="ff39 ls11 ws756"> models can thus </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e6">help the learner quickly revise a new model she is building while learning. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
