<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc6" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c6"><div class="pc pcc6 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xbc h5 y1ba ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb0 h5 y277 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4b h5 y2a9 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _14"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y3e4 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y369 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb2 h5 y9d2 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xae h5 y9e3 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y6eb ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6dc ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">207 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa78">And terminology based in the new model can adroitly be paired with care-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa79">fully selected examples or demonstrations to help the learner attend to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b7">the units that the new model tracks. (“This passage is played <span class="ff3b ws0">spiccato<span class="ff39 ls16">—like </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f3">this,” followed by a demonstration of the bowing technique, and then per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ed">haps examples and explanations differentiating <span class="ff3b ws0">spiccato</span><span class="ls11 ws7fb"> bowing from other </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">bouncing styles such as <span class="ff3b">ricochet</span><span class="ls1e">.) </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y203 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">Metaphor </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsa7a">In chapter 8, I briefly explored Lakoff and Johnson’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (2003) claim that a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7b">great deal of human understanding is based in metaphor<span class="_ _2d"></span>. I related this to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25">model-based understanding by suggesting that metaphorical transposition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7da">involves taking a model of one domain and using its structure as the scaf-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f5">folding for a model of a different domain, with subsequent revisions to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws389">accommodate the differences between domains. In the standard sense of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42">the word, metaphor is a linguistic phenomenon, and so it might seem to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d1">follow that if Lakoff and Johnson are correct, a great deal of human under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws737">standing is possible only because we have the linguistic capacities that can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws252">form a basis for metaphor<span class="_ _2d"></span>. W<span class="_ _2"></span>e should, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, be cautious in drawing this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81a">conclusion, as nonlinguistic mechanisms might also be available for trans-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44c">posing the structural features of a model to a new domain. This strikes me </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws654">as an important empirical question we should be careful not to prejudge. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7c">But even if nonlinguistic methods can achieve this result, mechanisms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws343">based in linguistic metaphor may be more efficient and have broader scope </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86">and are clearly powerful tools for the transmission of model-based forms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30">understanding. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o take one of Lakoff and Johnson’<span class="_ _2e"></span>s examples, just <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ff3b ws0">using<span class="ff39 ls0 ws352"> a </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7d">conflict metaphor for argument can prompt the hearer to activate a conflict </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37f">model and begin to use it as a way of thinking about argument. She might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72">eventually have thought of this way of looking at things on her own, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws2f6">language allows it to be transferred quickly and to proliferate through a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws292">community<span class="_ _2d"></span>, enlarging the stock of shared models that can be used in rou-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tine communication. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y174 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Models That Require Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd0">Several of the examples I used in discussing the idea of a mental model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7e">involved forms of understanding that nonlinguistic beings could not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c1">acquire at all. It goes without saying that models of domains that them-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7f">selves involve language—a model of the sonnet form, or even of restau-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws175">rant interactions—would be unavailable to nonlinguistic beings. Scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54a">understanding requires more than a grasp of grammar and reference, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a6">it is unlikely that our ancestors could have progressed very far beyond folk </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
