<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc7" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c7"><div class="pc pcc7 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y56d ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb h5 y726 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y56e ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9e4 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y33a ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9e5 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">208 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws535">physics or folk biology without increasingly regimented forms of linguistic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws311">representation and communication. (And we might well wonder whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19e">even maturationally normal forms of folk theories can be developed in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa80">absence of normal linguistic interaction, which is after all part of the normal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws673">developmental environment of human children.) Likewise, the acquisition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws673">of forms of mathematical understanding that go beyond what is present in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws190">the core systems takes place through linguistic interaction and may directly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2d">exploit cognitive capacities originally used for language or language-like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">cognition. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7dd">It would at this point be a matter of speculation just what proportion of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ad">the mental models we use depend essentially on language. I am prepared </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa81">to allow that the proportion may be quite large indeed. Language provides </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa82">new forms of representation, communication, and interaction—not least </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa83">in the ability to form concrete <span class="ff3b ws0">questions</span><span class="ls11 ws190">—and together these greatly expand </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws742">the sphere of things we can form interests in, explore to find the relevant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c5">patterns, interact with, and think about. Mastery of a domain still requires </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa84">us to form a mental model of it, but there are domains that are revealed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27d">to us only because we can think in language-like ways and communicate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">through language. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y20f ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Representation and Reasoning across Models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsa85">One fundamental advance afforded by language is that it provides a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws846">medium in which we can think thoughts that combine elements from dif-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws28a">ferent models. The inferential patterns associated with lexical items in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28a">language or concepts used in language-like thought may come from the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa86">life they lead within models; but from the standpoint of language and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42d">language-like thinking, a lexical or conceptual item’<span class="_ _2"></span>s model of origin is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws783">irrelevant. It is simply a unit of a particular logical or grammatical type. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa87">Concepts and lexemes originating in different models can be combined </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws651">grammatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, propositions involving them can be joined with logical con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws220">nectives, and the resulting propositions can be assembled into forms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d2">logical inference whose validity does not depend on their semantic values. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws328">This endows us with capacities for cross-domain representation and reason-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws880">ing that go beyond simply using two models in tandem, such as triangulat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ing a common referent. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa88">While this is an extremely powerful cognitive advance—so much so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25a">that we might well regard it as one of the most important features of truly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bd">human cognition—the marriage between model-based understanding and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67">language-like representation is imperfect. There are grammatically well-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32c">formed sentences that do not actually make sense once you understand </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
