<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc8" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c8"><div class="pc pcc8 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x31 h5 y6e8 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9e6 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y78a ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x22 h5 y9e7 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x31 h5 y9e8 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9e9 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9ea ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xea h5 y1c0 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3d h5 y78b ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd h5 y3ee ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">209 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa89">the meanings and implications of the terms. A single lexical item may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ed">stand in for elements in more than one model, where it functions differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws854">ently<span class="_ _2d"></span>, producing ambiguity or even paralogistic reasoning. And we tend </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws806">to assume in logical inference that the terms or concepts employed have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f8">sharply defined extensions, and forget that concepts as psychological enti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws352">ties tend to have fuzzy boundaries and originate in idealized models. Lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8a">guage, or at least logical reasoning based in language, seems to “want” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8b">things like bivalence and well-defined extensions, but this seems to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75a">something of a mismatch with what model-based understanding provides. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd">This, I suggest, is the psychological explanation of many apparent para-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8">doxes and is a result of adding a language-like form of thinking optimized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ce">for one set of purposes to a preexisting model-based form of understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wse8">optimized for others. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y20a ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Linguistic Creativity </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws183">Language also affords its own forms of creativity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Precisely because gram-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8c">matical sentence formation is relatively unconstrained by model-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws694">semantics and new sentences can be constructed more or less at will, we can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8d">construct sentences that express things that we might never have thought </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws226">of on the basis of model-based thinking. Of course, the vast majority of ran-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">domly constructed sentences have little cognitive value. Some are merely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8e">amusing (e.g., puns, at least if you consider puns amusing), others evocative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">(poetry). But sometimes they may spur new ways of thinking that prove to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse2">afford genuinely useful new ways of understanding the world. The initial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22a">creative act may not have been a <span class="ff3b ws0">product</span><span class="ls11 ws808"> of insight but might nonetheless </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">generate new insight. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y16f ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Higher-Order Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws734">Language also seems to provide the basis for several forms of higher-order </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8f">cognition, in which we think thoughts <span class="ff3b ws0">about</span> thoughts or thought struc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws729">tures. Perhaps some basic forms of higher-order cognition are nonlinguis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa90">tic, such as simply being aware that I am having a particular sensation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws529">thought, or experience (though this might better correspond to what is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa91">sometimes called “higher-order <span class="ff3b ws0">perception</span><span class="ls11 wsa92">”; cf. Armstrong 1968, 1984; </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws688">Lycan 1996). The analytic power of higher-order cognition, however<span class="_ _2d"></span>, seems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77d">to reside in the ability to attend to features <span class="ff3b ws0">of</span><span class="ls11 ws39b"> thoughts, and particularly </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">to either linguistically formulated thoughts or linguistic representations of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws477">those thoughts. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can raise questions about the clarity of a term or con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws946">cept, or about the meaning of a proposition, only when we can represent it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b6">as an object of thought, as opposed merely to thinking about other things </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
