<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfc9" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="c9"><div class="pc pcc9 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _118"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x55 h5 yfd ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y160 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y26b ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd9 h5 y295 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y731 ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y270 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y296 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">210 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>11 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">through<span class="ff39 ws1b"> it. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can examine the validity and cogency of an argument or </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ec">check the steps of an inference only when we can represent the argument </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83c">and its constituent propositions as special kinds of objects. The capacity to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">treat thoughts (or their Fregean contents, or their linguistic or logical rep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b7">resentations) as objects of thought is not required to be able to think at all, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">but it would seem to be a prerequisite for <span class="ff3b">critical</span><span class="ls12 ws3c"> thinking. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws395">This description, of course, leaves a number of questions open, such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cd">whether various techniques of critical thinking are directed toward thought </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws819">tokens, thought types, Fregean propositions, or linguistic representations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e8">such as sentences. It also leaves open the question of whether critical lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws248">guage-like <span class="ff3b ws0">thinking</span> depends essentially on public language. I think there are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws483">two types of (potentially defeasible) reasons to assume that it does. First, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4dd">critical thinking generally involves thinking about representations formu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4db">lated in a public language, even if this is done without overt speech. Sec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws261">ond, we generally learn to think critically through dialectical interaction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws223">with others. While I cannot rule out the possibility that a clever individual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16b">might develop forms of critical thinking on her own, it seems quite likely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ae">to me that, in general, the capacity for individual critical thought arises by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f8">way of a kind of internalization of interpersonal dialectic. (Of course, even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84c">a brilliant individual who pioneers critical thinking from the ground up on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44">her own would do so using linguistically expressed thoughts, even if some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7aa">of the vocabulary is of her own invention and has not been shared with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">others.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y213 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">External Symbol Storage </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws615">An important extension of natural language is provided by writing. While </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48b">a good portion of the earliest extant examples of writing are accounting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71c">records, anything that can be said can also be represented in external sym-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47">bols. Merlin Donald (1991) has argued that external symbol storage is itself </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3f">one of the great watersheds in the history of human cognition, particularly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e8">because it allows the storage and retrieval of information to be freed from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws118">the vagaries of individual memory<span class="_ _2"></span>. Before writing, the stock of informa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa93">tion available to a community was largely confined to what was known </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d9">and remembered by its elders. W<span class="_ _2"></span>riting allows information to be preserved </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fd">indefinitely and to be conveyed to broad audiences, widely separated in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">space and time. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws176">But external symbol storage can also serve as an important cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82e">prosthesis that expands and refines our ability to think and reason more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws103">clearly<span class="_ _2d"></span>. A written sentence can be scrutinized and reexamined, allowing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa94">us to better understand it and to analyze it critically<span class="_ _2d"></span>. As a consequence, </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
