<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfca" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ca"><div class="pc pcca w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xd h5 y352 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x29 h5 y3ab ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y46b ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y770 ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x84 h5 y3ae ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y53c ff3a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y46c ff39 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">211 <span class="_ _1e"></span>The Complementarity of Models and Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ef">it is also possible to set down in writing thoughts that would be difficult </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d6">to express or comprehend orally because they stretch the storage limits of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67e">auditory parsing. In assessing a line of reasoning, it is an enormous benefit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa95">if one can use written formulations that <span class="ff3b">stay put</span><span class="ls11 ws450">, which we can refer back to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa96">as needed. And certain forms of writing, such as the schematic representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws478">tions used in logic, help to clarify the logical forms of propositions. It may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws684">be (as Plato claims in the Seventh Letter) that there are significant disad-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c7">vantages to writing as opposed to the living dialectic of oral discourse, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">writing also has signal advantages for clear analytic thinking. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y206 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Social Knowledge Production </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa97">Finally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, while knowledge and understanding may be attributed in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a1">strictest sense to individuals, their production is often inescapably social in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70a">character<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Things like contemporar<span class="_ _2f"></span>y scientific theories and systems of laws </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c3">are seldom the work of one person working in isolation. Not only does one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws946">person’<span class="_ _2"></span>s work build on another’<span class="_ _2"></span>s, but it is often the case that the formation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84a">of a model requires teams of individuals with different types of expertise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws471">and distinct duties working together to craft something that none of them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80b">could accomplish alone. Even if the final product is something that an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a8">individual is capable of understanding, it may well be that, in the pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws645">cess of developing it, none of the members of the team understood the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa98">whole product both comprehensively and in detail, and the process of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18f">coordinating the different components depends essentially on language. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c7">Mental models are indeed essential to the process, but their coordination </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws769">takes place not via mechanisms like triangulation that operate within indi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e2">vidual minds but through carefully developed special means of commu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33c">nication, crafted toward a particular end, but erected on the foundation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws291">of language. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y171 ff3a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">11.5 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls18">Summary </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88f ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa99">Public language and language-like thinking are cognitive capacities distinct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y890 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35a">from model-based cognition. They are comparatively recent additions to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6dd ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws770">the cognitive tool kit and would have been of little use to animals that did </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6de ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f2">not have substantial capacities for model formation. They inherit much of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y312 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23d">their semantic content from mental models and do not themselves provide </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6df ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19a">a basis for the same types of reasoning and understanding supplied by men-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e0 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84d">tal models. But neither are they simply separate additions to the cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e1 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c0">tool kit. They provide distinct forms of thinking and reasoning that com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e2 ff39 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c6">plement model-based processes and allow us to refine our mental models </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
