<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfcd" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="cd"><div class="pc pccd w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff3d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6ec ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x50 h5 y295 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y6b9 ff3d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30e ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _11a"> </span> <span class="ff3e"> </span></div><div class="t m0 x77 h5 y296 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _5d"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7b h5 y6ed ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">216 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff3d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">12.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Visions of Unity and the Problems They Face </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e">Let’<span class="_ _2"></span>s start by reviewing what has been said so far about the units of knowl-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws877">edge and understanding. If knowledge is justified true belief, then the units </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws946">of knowledge are sentence sized. I have used the term ‘understanding’ for a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws965">broader and more interconnected sort of comprehension of a domain—an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24b">understanding of chess, or of Newtonian mechanics, or of the Japanese </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws565">tea ceremony—and argued that mental models are fundamental units of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94e">understanding. The implicit rules of a model are among the things that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws441">might be counted as dispositional beliefs (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, that bishops move only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51e">diagonally or that bodies exert a gravitational attraction described by the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws751">inverse square law). The conceptual resources of models are used to frame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d6">more specific judgments (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, that the white bishop can capture the black </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws559">rook on the next turn or that this rock is accelerating in free fall toward the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7df">ground). The understanding associated with a model also includes abilities </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91e">to recognize particular situations as ones to which the model may aptly be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">applied and to act in a fashion guided by the model. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y20c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b2">T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o get clearer on ways that beliefs and models might be “unified” or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws877">“disunified,” it is useful to start with science, if only because there has been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ba">so much prior discussion of “the unity of science.” Science has often been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d5">characterized in terms of a set of beliefs about theories, laws, and empirical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa05">facts, but scientific theories are really paradigm examples of mental models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws530">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can have beliefs <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">about<span class="ff3c ws530"> scientific models—say<span class="_ _2"></span>, that Newtonian mechan-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26">ics provides an apt model for certain types of situations. Explicitly formu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws242">lated laws express basic commitments of such models. And more specific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45c">types of scientific beliefs and judgments involve the use of a model to frame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa9f">a situation and apply the rules of the model to reason about it. But scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws337">models also stand in various relationships to one another: they involve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7eb">consonant or dissonant commitments, representational systems, and forms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fb">of reasoning and can be used to license judgments that are consistent or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws918">inconsistent with one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. I thus begin by discussing three visions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws534">scientific unity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, along with brief summaries of reasons that they have been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">difficult (and perhaps impossible) to achieve. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y176 ff3d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Three Visions of Scientific Unity </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws325">Some visions of the unity of science are cast in terms of scientific <span class="ff3e ws0">knowledge<span class="ff3c ls0">, </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">beliefs<span class="ff3c ws280">, or </span>propositions<span class="ff3c ws280"> and based on two key ways that propositions can be </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a6">related: consistency and implication. It would generally be assumed that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5f">two scientific beliefs—or two beliefs generally—that are <span class="ff3e ws0">known</span><span class="ls12 ws389"> should be </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c6">consistent with each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, because to be knowledge, they must be true, </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
