<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfce" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ce"><div class="pc pcce w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ab ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x63 h5 y6ee ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y771 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _2f"></span> <span class="_ _11b"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y772 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x79 h5 y9ec ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x81 h5 y9ed ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">217 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6">and two inconsistent beliefs cannot both be true, at least in standard log-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa0">ics. If two scientific theories imply conclusions that are not consistent with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b5">each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, we thus have reason to think that something must be amiss </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d7">with at least one of them. This might seem to be a simple truth of logic and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4">hence a fairly minimal type of “unity<span class="_ _2d"></span>,” but it is not at all trivial to make it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws918">work out the way we anticipate: the best scientific theories we have, gen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws795">eral relativity and quantum theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, in fact seem to produce inconsistencies </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">when combined. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e9">A second and stronger vision of unity is based on the implicatory rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c3">tions between propositions. T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo such implicator<span class="_ _2f"></span>y relations are particularly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ed">important. The first is the Laplacean determinist view that a comprehen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25">sive set of laws of nature (regarded as propositions) combined with a com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a8">prehensive description of the state of the universe at a time <span class="ff3e ls0 ws0">t</span><span class="ls16 ws20d"> should imply </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa24">a comprehensive description of the state of the universe at any later time </div><div class="t m0 x0 hf y10e ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">t<span class="ff3c ws947"> + </span><span class="ff3f">∂<span class="ff3c ls7 ws947">. The second is the reductionist view that there is some lowest-level </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e7">description of the world (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in the vocabular<span class="_ _2f"></span>y of fundamental physics) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e2">from which all the legitimate higher-level descriptions of the world (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46">the vocabularies of chemistry<span class="_ _2"></span>, biology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and psychology) can in principle be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa1">derived. Both determinism and reductionism have sometimes been regarded </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws586">as views that <span class="ff3e ws0">must</span> be true. No less a philosopher than Kant claimed that it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f3">is a synthetic a priori truth that we must regard all events as determined by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11d">a law of nature.</div><div class="t m0 xa1 h8 y80 ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 x79 h5 y3f7 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11d"> And some of the twentieth-century positivists and empiri-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y794 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa2">cists regarded intertheoretic reduction as a norm of the logic of science, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9ee ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws239">eventually leading some philosophers who believed some supposed phe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9ef ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3">nomena (such as intentional states and ethical facts) to be irreducible to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f0 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79a">become eliminativists about them. But the questions of whether all events </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f1 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4">are causally determined and whether all scientific theories are reducible to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f2 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws372">fundamental physics also seem quite plausibly to be higher-order empirical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f3 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b5">questions (a view taken, e.g., in Oppenheim and Putnam’<span class="_ _2"></span>s [1958] “Unity </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f4 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1af">of Science as a W<span class="_ _2d"></span>orking Hypothesis”). And as empirical hypotheses, both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f5 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws516">have fallen on hard times. Reductionism reached its zenith in the early </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f6 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws549">1960s, but since that time, philosophers of science who have examined the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f7 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfb">relationships between theories carefully have repeatedly found that they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f8 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws815">fall short of the standard of reduction as axiomatic reconstruction (Horst </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9f9 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws198">2007). Quantum theory employs probabilistic equations and, in some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9fa ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws259">its philosophical interpretations, is regarded as truly indeterministic. And I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9fb ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e6">argued in <span class="ff3e">Laws, Mind, and Free W<span class="_ _2"></span>ill<span class="ff3c"> that even nonprobabilistic classical laws </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9fc ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bd">do not imply a commitment to determinism, and a commitment to them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9fd ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63d">is compatible with a commitment to anomic events, including free will and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9fe ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">miracles (Horst 2011). </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
