<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfcf" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="cf"><div class="pc pccf w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x17 h5 y474 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y9ff ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xe6 h4 ya00 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya01 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd3 h5 ya02 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 ya03 ff3d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya04 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x2b h5 ya05 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">218 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws950">A third vision of unity is that an ideally completed science would employ </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fb">a single comprehensive theory of everything. This would not mean that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c">more particular theories of things like chemical reactions, thermodynam-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa3">ics, or neural dynamics would cease to be employed, only that they would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b4">turn out to be either derivable from the grand unified theory as special </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws863">cases applicable (and perhaps much easier to use) in particular contexts, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws2d2">or else sufficiently close approximations of the implications of that theory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws678">to be useful in those contexts. As theories are, in my view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, models and not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2af">propositions, we may regard this as a vision for replacing our many dif-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17c">ferent models of distinct phenomena with a single comprehensive model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws117">without a loss of explanatory power or predictive accuracy<span class="_ _2"></span>. The search for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7ee">a grand unified theory in physics is generally seen as an attempt to find a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97a">single theory to unite a relativistic theory of gravitation and a quantum </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa4">theory of strong-weak-electromagnetic force. Many theoretical physicists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ba">assume (and we might well ask <span class="ff3e ws0">why</span> they so readily assume it) that it is only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69f">a matter of time until we will hit upon such a theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, or at least that it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81f">available in principle, even if no one in fact uncovers it. But this is by no </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ab">means an obligatory view<span class="_ _2"></span>. Stephen Hawking, for example, has changed his </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">mind on this question: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y9ff ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1f0">Up to now, most people have implicitly assumed that there is an ultimate theory, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya06 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws454">that we will eventually discover. Indeed, I myself have suggested we might find it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya07 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f7">quite soon. However, M-theory has made me wonder if this is true. Maybe it is not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya08 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaa5">possible to formulate the theory of the universe in a finite number of statements. … </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya09 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaa6">Some people will be very disappointed if there is not an ultimate theory, that can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya0a ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaa7">formulated as a finite number of principles. I used to belong to that camp, but I have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya00 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">changed my mind. (Hawking 2002) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya01 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f6">I will return to Hawking’<span class="_ _2"></span>s views shortly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, as they are tied up with his “model-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya0b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws580">dependent realism”—a view that I discovered only late in the process of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya0c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws165">writing this book, but which has a great deal in common with cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya0d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">pluralism. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 ya0e ff3d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Beyond the Sciences </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya0f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d0">Even if scientific knowledge and scientific models were to turn out to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya10 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b7">unifiable in one or more of these ways, we would still be faced with the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya11 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa8">question of whether our other<span class="_ _2"></span>, <span class="_ _48"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">non<span class="ff3c wsaa8">scientific beliefs and the models in which </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya12 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws587">they are framed can similarly be unified. The most notable philosophical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya13 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws814">problems are about the relationship between normative claims (particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya14 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a">larly ethical claims) and positive claims—that is, beliefs about natural laws </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya15 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws162">and matters of fact. As Hume taught us, no set of claims about facts and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
