<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd0" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d0"><div class="pc pcd0 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x63 h5 y352 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ab ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y972 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf6 h5 ya16 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3b0 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">219 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70">laws entails any normative claim. And Kant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s view that we are compelled </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws780">to regard the world of nature as causally deterministic was in precarious </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws548">balance with his view that we must regard human action as free in a sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15c">that is incompatible with causal determination. Even <span class="ff3e ws0">within</span><span class="ls12 ws74e"> ethics we are </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83c">led to paradoxes in which two opposing views seem compelling, and there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8">are alternative metaethical models (consequentialist, deontological, virtue-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa9">theoretic) that seem both irreducible to one another and to often entail </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">conflicting conclusions about cases. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaaa">There is also a set of problems about the relationship between mathemat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws296">ics and the world of nature: mathematical truths are not a consequence of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaab">how the world is, and have a kind of necessity that could not be underwrit-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws583">ten by empirical facts and laws. Mathematics cannot be reduced to phys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7bd">ics. But neither can physics be reduced to mathematics (despite the hopes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaac">of some thinkers of the seventeenth century), as there are purely physi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws725">cal properties like mass as well, and various mathematical systems provide </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaad">descriptions of various alternative forms space might take, and waves, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e0">particles, and fields that behave in alternative ways. And the discovery of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fa">non-Euclidean geometries in the nineteenth century brought the startling </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c5">realization that while individual mathematical systems might be internally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71e">consistent and derived from a small set of axioms, there are indefinitely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">many such systems whose axioms are inconsistent with one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws31">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e might, moreover<span class="_ _2e"></span>, raise similar questions about many more ordinary </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa68">domains of understanding. Chess pieces and chessboards are typically gar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws835">den-variety physical objects—pieces of wood or plastic. (The ontology of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws257">the “pieces” in computer chess is more complicated, but still physical. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa76">status of those in mental chess turn on whether the mind itself is physical.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaae">But a complete understanding of the pieces and board in physical terms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">would not confer an understanding of the game of chess. Perhaps the die-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a3">hard reductionist might insist that “the game of chess” is simply a set of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1e">conventions that could be reduced to the mental states of those who share </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d8">the conventions, which could in turn be reduced to fundamental phys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7">ics. And if such reductions could be carried out, they might well explain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws890">the <span class="ff3e ws0">behavior</span> exhibited in chess matches. But it is unclear that they would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac">explain the game as an abstract entity any more than an explanation of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">mental states of mathematicians would explain mathematics. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaaf">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e thus have three visions of how beliefs and models might be uni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ad">fied, each with corresponding possibilities for disunity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The first and most </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa">modest views “unity” in terms of global consistency: to be unified, our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse8">beliefs (including the commitments implied by our models, at least when </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">aptly applied) must be mutually consistent. The second is framed in terms </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
