<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd1" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d1"><div class="pc pcd1 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xdb h5 yfd ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y26a ff3d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y556 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y473 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b7 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y337 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _bc"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x11 h5 y338 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b9 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">220 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab0">of implication: that there should be some relatively conservative set of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws560">beliefs and models from which the others can be derived. The third is that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cd">“unity” would consist of a single comprehensive and self-consistent model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws418">in which all our beliefs and judgments can be framed, and in such a fash-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab1">ion that nothing we know or understand on the basis of having multiple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">models is lost in the process. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y203 ff3d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">12.2 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Disunity as a Problem </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b1 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws833">At some level, most of us—not just philosophers and scientists—find dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b2 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf4">unities of belief and understanding troubling, and this leads us to seek ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b3 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws657">to unify them. It would be useful to take a moment to examine the nature </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b4 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of this situation, and of our dissatisfaction with it. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1b5 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsef">First, we each find ourselves with some number of conflicting and even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2da">contradictory beliefs. Sometimes it is that we believe one thing on one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws914">occasion or when primed in a particular way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and another on another occa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">sion or when primed in a different way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But sometimes we find ourselves, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws181">even upon deep reflection, equally committed to two contrary claims and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">do not know how to resolve the tension between them. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y167 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws959">Second, we find this situation dissatisfying. It drives us to attempt to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws844">find a way of resolving the contradiction. It is no accident that paradoxes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36c">drive much of the histories of both philosophy and science. This seems to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws474">be a deep and productive feature of human psychology: that when we are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab2">pulled toward two contradictory beliefs, we are spurred to find some way </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a9">to resolve the contradiction. Often we succeed, and some of these successes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws328">have been watershed moments in the history of human knowledge. A more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">complacent species would have learned far less about the world. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y16f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95">Third, we do not just have conflicting beliefs; we have multiple ways of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">framing<span class="ff3c ws5e9"> things through models. (This is a slightly more contentious claim </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws238">than the first two, because it involves a bit of theory<span class="_ _2"></span>.) Sometimes this is just </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws520">a matter of having <span class="ff3e ws0">different</span> ways of framing things. And sometimes it seems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a8">to amount to something more serious: the different ways of framing things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b6">are in various ways in tension with one another<span class="_ _2"></span>, such as being incommen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">surable or implying contradictory inferences. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y176 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws564">Fourth, the disparities between models are also dissatisfying. They are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56d">probably not as immediately troubling as contradictions between beliefs, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab3">except perhaps when they generate contradictory beliefs. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>et something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5dd">within us is puzzled and troubled even by having two models that frame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws748">the world in different terms, and seeks to find some way of bringing them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">into some deeper harmony<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
