<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf15" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="15"><div class="pc pc15 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ba ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _50"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1ee ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8c h5 y1ef ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x32 h5 y1f0 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _51"> </span> <span class="_ _52"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1f1 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f2 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _53"> </span> <span class="_ _54"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x8d h5 y1f3 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y1f4 ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f5 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _55"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y1f6 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">15 <span class="_ _1e"></span>A Standard Philosophical View of Cognitive Architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19d">knowledge, meaning, truth, inference, and understanding can adequately </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19e">be treated using just the resources of the three-tiered picture I shall call the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">standard view<span class="ffc ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19f">One obvious observation about the units of the three-tiered picture is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a0">that they clearly correspond to the structural units of language and logic as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a1">well. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>ords in a natural language and predicate letters in logic correspond </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a2">to concepts, sentences and well-formed formulas correspond to intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a3">states such as beliefs, and both language and logic have larger units called </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a4">“arguments” corresponding to inferences, though of course natural lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a5">guages have many other types of structured discursive units as well (stories, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a6">jokes, etc.) that are absent from logic. It seems clearest to characterize the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws100">structural <span class="ffe ws0">size</span> of the units with terminology drawn from the description of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">language: that is, as <span class="ffe">word-sized</span>, <span class="ffe">sentence-sized</span>, and <span class="ffe">argument-sized</span><span class="ls18 ws1a7"> units. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a8">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, some of the ways theorists have expanded on the three-tiered </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a9">picture are modeled on things found in linguistics and logic as well: for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1aa">example, the idea that the meanings of judgments are a function of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c">meanings of concepts plus compositional syntax, and philosophers’ preoc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ab">cupation with the particular (deductive) forms of inference that predomi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ac">nate in standard logics. Of course, this raises a number of questions about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ad">the relationship between thinking, language, and logic that I cannot fully </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ae">address here. For example, is our capacity for language simply an ability to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1af">express publicly<span class="ffc"> what was already available </span><span class="ws0">mentally</span><span class="ffc"> in the forms of think-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24">ing characteristic of human minds, or is the ability to think in these ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b0">a consequence of learning a public language, or at least being a member </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse0">of a species whose brains have capacities that were originally selected to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b1">produce competence in spoken language? Does thinking literally take place </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b2">in a “language of thought” (Fodor 1975), or is the relationship between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b3">thought and language more analogical—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, that thinking and language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws169">have structural units with similar sizes and functions? I shall not attempt </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b4">to settle these questions here. For now<span class="_ _2d"></span>, suffice it to say that the theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b5">of a number of core areas of philosophy suggest that thought, or at least </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b6">a significant portion of thought, is “language-like” in the sense of having </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">structural units analogous to those found in languages. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y1f7 ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">2.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Some Philosophical Issues </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b7">But <span class="ffe ws0">do</span> truth theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, semantics, and logic really commit us </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b8">to such a thesis about cognitive architecture, or indeed to any theses about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b9">cognitive architecture at all? The assumption that they do so presumes that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ba">such theories require, or at least suggest, a kind of <span class="ffe">psychological realism</span><span class="ls16 ws1bb"> about </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
