<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd2" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d2"><div class="pc pcd2 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y26a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x25 h5 y601 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26d ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9 h5 y602 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y294 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9c"> </span><span class="ls7 wsd9"> </span></div><div class="t m0 xcc h5 y557 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y888 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _59"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6ba ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">221 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e might summarize the second and fourth points by saying that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ee">mind has a kind of drive toward finding ways to unify a system of beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab4">and of understanding, respectively<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This, of course, is a point famously </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6e">made by Kant. Kant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s attendant observation should be added: the mere fact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws766">that we have a drive to unify what we believe or the ways we understand </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">things does not itself entail that we will in fact be able to do so. And to this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fb">we may add a fifth point, which is also a variant on Kant: we have notions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws442">of particular <span class="ff3e ws0">ways</span> that knowledge and understanding might be brought </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws887">into greater unity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Kant had his own hypotheses about what these are and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws290">their cognitive underpinnings. I would suggest that we see evidence of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws735">distinct set of these in the types of unification that philosophers and sci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws554">entists have in fact sought: global consistency of beliefs, reduction, and a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">single all-encompassing theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab5">I will explore, in chapter 14, a way of developing a sixth point, also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscf">foreshadowed by Kant: the ways that features of cognitive architecture can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cd">generate particular types of <span class="ff3e ws0">illusions</span><span class="ls11 ws64d">, some of which have to do with the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ba">mind’<span class="_ _2"></span>s drives to unify knowledge and understanding in particular ways. For </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws531">present purposes, it is perhaps enough to say that our dissatisfaction with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws653">disunities is clearly a feature of something about our minds, but a psycho-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws166">logical drive to unify by no means ensures that the project can be carried </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">out to its desired ideal conclusion. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd9">Why might our beliefs and models, as we find them, be disunified? W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws916">have already explored one part of an answer to this question with respect </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fd">to models: having various models of different aspects of the world is a good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab6">strategy for building a capacity for understanding many features of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab7">world into finite minds, and each model must represent things in some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa07">particular way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. What we have yet to explore is how the ways models are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a1">idealized can lead to disunities of understanding. If beliefs are constrained </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab8">by the ways we can frame thoughts through the resources of models, some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab9">problems about disunities of belief may also be explained in the process. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa13">in general, there need be no deep mystery about why a given finite mind, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b7">at any given time, might encounter conflicts among its beliefs and models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws272">No one ever thought that everyone’<span class="_ _2"></span>s system of beliefs was <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff3e">in fact<span class="ff3c"> compre-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b8">hensive or consistent, and anyone who thought that about the models used </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e5">to frame such beliefs was psychologically naive. Claims about unification of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws174">knowledge and understanding are claims not about our beliefs and models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws200">as we find them<span class="ff3c"> but about what it might be possible to do to bring them to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws1a7">greater unity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaba">The more trenchant question is this: is there a way of understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws719">why<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in spite of millennia of philosophical inquir<span class="_ _2f"></span>y and centuries of science, </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
