<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd3" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d3"><div class="pc pcd3 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x2 h5 ya6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x59 h5 ya17 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbd h5 ya18 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf1 h5 y791 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 ya19 ff3d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya1a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3 h5 y6e5 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">222 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c0">our beliefs and models might still present every indication of being <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">abid-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ingly<span class="ff3c ws81f"> disunified? And to this there would seem to be several distinct types </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f9">of possible answers. The first is that the disunities of knowledge and under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40d">standing are only a symptom of the current state of our knowledge and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d9">understanding—our current state of ignorance, as it were. Given enough </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21c">time and investigation, all disunities would all be resolved. A second is that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49f">there are indeed principled disunities of knowledge and understanding, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e8">and the reason for this lies in <span class="ff3e">something about the world</span><span class="ls11 ws6ee">. A modest version </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabb">of this would be that we need multiple fundamental theories because there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabc">are in fact multiple fundamental forces. A robust variant would be that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66">understanding is disunified because the world was already<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in some sense, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabd">disunified before it (Dupré 1993). A third possibility is that there are things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46e">about the world that minds like ours are simply unsuited to understand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f4">ing—what Colin McGinn (1991) calls “cognitive closure.” There are things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f1">about the world that we understand that dogs do not understand. Canine </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws496">minds are cognitively closed to those principles. Similarly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, once one thinks </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws500">about it, it seems utter hubris to suppose that there is nothing about the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws139">world that human minds are cognitively closed to. I think this is a plausible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fa">idea, but what I wish to explore is a fourth alternative: that there may be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws268">features of our cognitive architecture—of the things we <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">do<span class="ff3c ls12 ws17"> understand in </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws622">particular ways—that may themselves lead to disunities between the ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws34">we understand them; and that minds like ours may be unable to produce a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a1">set of beliefs that is globally consistent or a single comprehensive model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19e">everything without losing some of the epistemic grip on the world that we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws713">gain through many more localized, idealized models and the beliefs they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">license. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y216 ff3d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">12.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Model-Based Understanding as a Source of Disunity </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2aa">The basic idea here is fairly straightforward. It is the idea that there are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ac">features of models that have implications for how two models are related </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f5">to each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, and sometimes these involve incommensurability<span class="_ _2"></span>, irreduc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c9">ibility<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and inconsistency<span class="_ _2"></span>. Not <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">all<span class="ff3c ls11 ws823"> combinations of models are fraught with </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws128">these problems, but the fact that some are is simply a consequence of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88f">fact that models are each idealized ways of thinking about particular con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a3">tent domains that involve particular systematic ways of representing and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws474">reasoning about their target domains. Viewed as a system for representing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b9">and reasoning, a model has a particular formal shape that can be described </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86b">by rules. If two models do not represent their targets in the same ways, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40">they can be incommensurable. Of course, if two models are sufficiently </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
