<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd4" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d4"><div class="pc pcd4 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x13 h5 y60 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xe3 h5 ycb ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _dd"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x72 h5 ya1b ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya1c ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya1d ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x91 h5 ya1e ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">223 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabe">incommensurable that their domains do not overlap at all, they cannot </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws584">produce contradictions. But if two models do have overlapping domains, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">and the formal features of the models are logically incompatible, they can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90f">jointly produce contradictions. And whether one model M</div><div class="t m0 x18 h8 ya1f ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 x13 h5 y60 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws13b"> can be reduced </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ycb ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e0">to another model M</div><div class="t m0 xb8 h8 ya20 ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2</div><div class="t m0 xe3 h5 ycc ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e0"> depends on whether M</div><div class="t m0 x5f h8 ya20 ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2</div><div class="t m0 x91 h5 ycc ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws791"> possesses the right resources </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ycd ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">on which a construction of M</div><div class="t m0 xbb h8 ya21 ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 x72 h5 yce ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d"> can be based. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y7d6 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4df">While pure mathematics is special in several ways, we can understand </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y7d7 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws170">some of the basic issues most clearly by considering it first. Consider two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya22 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws272">geometric systems: a two-dimensional Euclidean geometry and Riemann’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya23 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws599">geometry of the surface of a sphere. Each can be described by a system of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya24 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws742">axioms and theorems, and indeed they share a substantial number of axi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya25 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52f">oms, differing chiefly with respect to Euclid’<span class="_ _2"></span>s parallel postulate. In Euclid-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya26 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b3">ean space, a line stretches indefinitely in two directions, and for any point </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya27 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b">P not on a line L, there is exactly one line through P that is parallel to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya28 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse5">L—that is, the two lines do not intersect. On the surface of a sphere, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya29 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws440">equivalent of a line is a geodesic, like the earth’<span class="_ _2"></span>s equator<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Start at any point </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya2a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws839">and continue in any direction, and eventually you will return to the point </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya2b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2">of origin. There are no parallel lines on the surface of a sphere. (Cartogra-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya2c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23c">phers do speak of “parallels,” but they are not really lines as defined in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya2d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9">system, nor are they parallel in the relevant mathematical sense. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o follow </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya2e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">a cartographic “parallel” around a sphere, you would have to orient your </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya2f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa0f">path slightly to the left or the right. And two geodesics—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the equator </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya30 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws354">and the Greenwich meridian—intersect at two opposite points.) The paral-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya31 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ec">lel postulate is true in Euclid’<span class="_ _2"></span>s geometry but false in Riemann’<span class="_ _2e"></span>s. And there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya32 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1f">are other differences as well: for example, the sum of the interior angles </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya33 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabf">of a triangle on the surface of a sphere will always exceed 180 degrees; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya34 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac0">the Pythagorean theorem is false in a spherical geometry<span class="_ _2"></span>, as you can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya35 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa39">have a triangle with three right angles; and so on. If you reasoned from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya36 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsac1">premises taken from the two geometries, it would be easy to generate a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya37 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsac2">contradiction. Neither geometric system can be derived from the other<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya38 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c6">and there is no self-consistent third system from which all the axioms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya39 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c4">of both can be derived, because to produce the contrary axioms and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya3a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6b2">theorems, the third system would have to already contain contradictory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya3b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wse8">assumptions within it. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya3c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws760">So here is the first crucial point: any particular model employs a par-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya3d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">ticular representational system; it allows us to represent the world in some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya3e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f8">particular set of ways and not in other ways, and it employs a particular set </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya3f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25c">of inference rules and not some other set. From this point, several others </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya40 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1de">follow<span class="_ _2d"></span>. First, one model may allow us to represent things or draw infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya41 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac3">ences that another cannot, and we may <span class="ff3e ws0">need</span><span class="ls11 ws92"> multiple models if we need </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
