<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd5" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d5"><div class="pc pcd5 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya42 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _11c"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xe4 h5 ya43 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xde h5 ya44 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya45 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y83c ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e7"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya46 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbf h5 ya47 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x82 h5 ya48 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">224 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57f">the different types of representations and inferences each supplies and we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e3">cannot find a single model that supplies them all together<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Second, two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18d">models can turn out to be incommensurable or license incompatible infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws589">ences. As we shall see, this is not always as serious a problem as at first </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c1">it might appear<span class="_ _2"></span>, because in some cases two models are not aptly applied </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws492">to the same situations and hence should not really license contradictory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71e">judgments. But it is still an important source of potential contradictions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76c">and paradoxes. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, models that are incommensurable or license con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cd">tradictory inferences cannot be reduced to one another or to some third </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d3">(internally consistent) model. There is also another reason that one model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">M</div><div class="t m0 xef h8 ya49 ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya42 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c4"> may be irreducible to another model M</div><div class="t m0 xd1 h8 ya49 ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2</div><div class="t m0 x62 h5 ya42 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c4">: if there are types of representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya43 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws764">tional resources or inference rules in M </div><div class="t m0 x48 h8 y899 ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 xe4 h5 y9dd ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws335"> that are lacking from, and cannot </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y140 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">be constructed from, the resources of M </div><div class="t m0 x8f h8 ya4a ff3c fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2</div><div class="t m0 xde h5 y892 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya4b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac4">What we have arrived at here are the elements for explanations of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya4c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">various types of disunities of belief and understanding in terms of the fea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya4d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac5">tures of our cognitive architecture. If understanding comes in the form </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya4e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">of models, and each model employs a particular representational system </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya4f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws312">that is optimized for particular ends, it is quite possible for two or more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya50 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws678">models to carve up the world in incompatible ways, to be formally incom-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya51 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac6">patible, and to license incompatible inferences. T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo models can each </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya52 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws85a">be eminently apt for their own purposes and yet not play well together<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya53 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e2">Given the assumption of a model-based cognitive architecture, we should </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya54 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">expect<span class="ff3c ws288"> to find such disunities, and the thesis about cognitive architecture </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya55 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ee">supplies a kind of diagnosis of their source. In some ways, it is a defla-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya56 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws560">tionary diagnosis: conflicts in belief or understanding need not imply that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya57 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb2">“the world is disunified” (whatever that might mean) but may be artifacts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya58 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac7">of the cognitive architecture through which our minds understand the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya59 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">world. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41c">Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>et in another way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, this is also a disconcerting insight. It may be that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws272">the disunities we find today are things we can bootstrap our way beyond, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya5c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86">by finding a better set of models that do not conflict in the same ways, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya5d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws100">perhaps even finding a single super model of everything that is self-consis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya5e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d3">tent and allows all the legitimate insights provided by our existing models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya5f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fc">But it could also turn out that this is impossible—that either features of our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya60 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73c">cognitive architecture itself or their combination with the particular set of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya61 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b9">things we encounter and care about in the world <span class="ff3e ws0">requires</span><span class="ls11 ws568"> multiple models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya62 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws842">to provide maximal epistemic and practical traction on the world, and in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya63 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e7">some cases these models may<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in combination, produce inconsistencies and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya64 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws695">paradoxes. If this is the case, certain disunities of belief and understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya65 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">may be <span class="ff3e">principled and abiding for minds like ours</span><span class="ls0">. </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
