<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd6" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d6"><div class="pc pcd6 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _11d"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y161 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc5 h5 y3e8 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e9 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">225 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c2">The question of whether there <span class="ff3e ws0">are</span> such principled and abiding disuni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61c">ties, I think, cannot be settled decisively in advance or by purely theoretical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac8">considerations. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e cannot know a priori how many independent principles </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f0">are at work in the world, and so any intuition that there should be just one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws154">must reflect a cognitive bias. Nor will it do to appeal to an intuition that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7">“the world must be comprehensive and self-consistent,” because the ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25c">tions about unifying belief and understanding depend not solely on how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3df">the world is but on how we are able to understand it, and hence involve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25a">empirical questions about human cognition. On the other hand, the mere </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws831">fact that our present ways of understanding the world are disunified in vari-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fb">ous ways does not entail that we cannot achieve better ways of understand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8ca">ing it that are better unified. There is no way of ruling out in advance a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa0">new insight that would change everything, because we could only evaluate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d2">its prospects by knowing what it was, and by definition future insights are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3">unknown. Whether disunities of belief and understanding are principled </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">and abiding is ultimately an open-ended empirical question. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac9">So here is a second important point. A model-based architecture for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaca">understanding can (and does) result in de facto disunities of belief and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws715">understanding but does not itself answer the question of whether such dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67e">unities are a kind of principled limitation on knowledge or understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fe">It <span class="ff3e ws0">does</span> give us reason to be suspicious of any intuitions we may have to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa9c">effect that there should ultimately be a single, all-encompassing model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws266">everything, or that we should be able to find ways to reconcile all our con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd1">flicting beliefs. There is no reason to assume that the evolutionary forces </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c4">that shaped our cognitive architecture would have done so in a fashion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsaaf">that ensures such a capacity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. (And even if one believes that there was a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsacb">certain amount of special intervention by God in the design of human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4aa">minds, there is little reason to think that the design would have included </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsacc">the capacity to have a fully unified understanding. Perhaps the sense of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws786">mystery engendered by paradoxes that cannot be resolved in this mortal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">life is precisely what God was after<span class="_ _2d"></span>.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d7">The only kind of evidence we have on such a question would have to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws648">come from looking at cases. And here we find things that pull us in two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16f">contrary directions. The histories of philosophy of science are filled with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a">examples of surprising unifications—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, that the things we see in the sky </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabe">are not made of a different sort of matter operating on different princi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b5">ples, and the orbits of the planets and the behavior of falling bodies are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws751">explained by a single principle of gravitation. But they are also filled with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44f">discoveries of new phenomena requiring the postulation of new forces and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse5">other explanatory principles. And there are still deep disunities, both old </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
