<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd7" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d7"><div class="pc pcd7 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yfd ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y30d ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y180 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _1d"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x13 h5 y338 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x92 h5 y732 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">226 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa32">and new<span class="_ _2d"></span>, that we do not know how to resolve. T<span class="_ _2"></span>o name just a few: the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d7">gulf between facts and norms, commitments to competing normative prin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">ciples, the independence of mathematics from nature, wave-particle dual-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws338">ity and other puzzles of quantum theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, and the tensions between it and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">relativistic theories of space-time and gravitation. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a6">I began with examples of models of mathematical systems because they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a8">most clearly illustrate ways that the features of models can provide the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51e">basis for disunities of belief and understanding. But there are also impor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47e">tant issues that we cannot illuminate using mathematical examples. <span class="ff3e ws0">Pure </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3db">mathematics is special in that it is not accountable to anything outside the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws450">mathematical system. There are, of course, important questions about what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsb4">physical systems each geometry can provide apt representations of, but a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws649">discovery that space is non-Euclidean does not amount to a falsification </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47c">of Euclidean geometry<span class="_ _2"></span>. It is simply the system it is. And the fact that two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67f">geometries produce seemingly contradictory pronouncements on things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bd">like the parallel postulate and the Pythagorean theorem does not result in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bc">any deep paradoxes. Mathematically speaking, the parallel postulate and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ea">the Pythagorean theorem are not simply true-full-stop or false-full-stop; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c5">they are true-in-Euclidean-geometry and false-in-spherical-geometry<span class="_ _2"></span>. There </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b4">is no further question about their truth, except for corresponding ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ff">tions about whether they are true in additional types of geometric systems. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws878">Someone who mixes together incompatible commitments of two systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">in an inference is simply making a blunder<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8cf">A different set of issues arises when we <span class="ff3e ws0">apply</span> multiple models to real-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws791">world situations. It is here that issues about the ways the models are ideal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c7">ized and whether they are aptly applied arise. What makes a model good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47d">for its purpose is that it tracks patterns in the world sufficiently well for that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">purpose, and in a fashion that allows us to think, reason, and plan about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws560">situations in the world, and it does so by having a representational system </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws292">and a set of implicit rules that do a good-enough job of tracking such pat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16f">terns. The fact that any given model represents only <span class="ff3e ws0">some</span><span class="ls11 ws716"> things, and in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c3">elegant and comprehensible ways, is what allows it to provide insight into </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws425">particular real patterns. T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo different models may track different patterns </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b7">and may need to represent them in different ways to be elegant and com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws301">prehensible. But the very features that make each model apt for its given </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws741">purpose may present problems when we try to use two models together </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsacd">to understand a real-world situation to which they both apply<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This is a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62c">general and schematic story about a source of disunities of belief and under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31a">standing. In the ensuing sections, I explore its application to a number of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">cases. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
