<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd8" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d8"><div class="pc pcd8 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff3d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7 h5 y6b5 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y294 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9d6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf9 h5 ya66 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x77 h5 ya67 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e1"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">227 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff3d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">12.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Scientific Disunity </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c0">For approximately the past century<span class="_ _2"></span>, physics has had two highly success-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2c">ful, well-confirmed theories: a relativistic account of gravity and space-time </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">and a quantum mechanical account of strong, weak, and electromagnetic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsace">forces. One of the major projects in theoretical physics is an attempt to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsacf">unite the two into a single theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. It may be that there would be some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws686">physicists who would care about finding a grand unified theory simply </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb1">because they found the postulation of two distinct fundamental forces that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e">require different models to be inelegant or ontologically profligate. But this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20c">cannot be the entire reason that physicists care so much about a grand uni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws170">fied theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. After all, for a long time, physicists operating within classical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ae">mechanics were quite content with the idea that there are several inde-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a0">pendent fundamental forces—mechanical for<span class="_ _2e"></span>ce, gravity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, electromagnetism, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws701">chemical bonding. The difference was that scientists assumed that precisely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b">because these forces were independent, <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff3e">and all assumed a common Newto-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e0">nian understanding of space and matter<span class="ff3c">, their contributions to a comprehen-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a9">sive and consistent mechanics could be computed through vector algebra. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws816">There were several models of what were thought to be independent funda-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48">mental forces, but they were not inconsistent, precisely because they were </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws761">independent. The problem with relativity and quantum theory is that they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ff">are held to be incompatible with each other<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Now<span class="_ _2"></span>, if you look into just <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">how </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb">they are incompatible with each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, you will find an interesting vari-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47">ety of answers: there are differences in assumptions about renormalization, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws205">local causation, and an absolute or relative temporal frame of reference; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad0">and if you combine the mathematics in special cases like black holes, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabb">results are either inconsistent or mathematically incoherent. Some of these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb9">concern incompatibilities between the formal features of the two models; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">others are about how<span class="_ _2d"></span>, when combined, they lead to contradictor<span class="_ _2f"></span>y predic-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tions or even mathematical nonsense. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y219 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3bb">It would be foolish to try to predict whether the search for a unified field </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e5">theory will be successful. What my cognitivist account does is to supply at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa27">least a partial diagnosis of <span class="ff3e ws0">why</span> such a puzzling situation might arise. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws192">gain some perspective on this conundrum if we assume that each supplies </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa78">an <span class="ff3e ws0">apt</span><span class="ls1e ws7a4"> but </span><span class="ff3e ws0">idealized</span><span class="ls11 ws4ae"> model. Relativistic gravitation and quantum theory are </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsad1">each extremely well confirmed, and to an extraordinary degree of accuracy<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7db">For the phenomena to which they are applied, each is a highly apt model. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">But what does this mean? It means that particular mathematical descrip-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws486">tions do a very good job of tracking a certain set of empirically robust pat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b8">terns. It is a marvelous thing that the human mind is capable of coming </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
