<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfd9" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="d9"><div class="pc pcd9 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xcc h5 ya6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1c4 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xfb h5 y2dc ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y893 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xd8 h4 ya68 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 ya69 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xe1 h4 ya6a ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y82 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x6d h4 y540 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y544 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x84 h4 y541 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya6b ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">228 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws398">up with such models. But to be a concrete model at all, each model must </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7aa">use some particular representational system (and not some <span class="ff3e ws0">other</span><span class="ls12 wsad2"> system). </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96b">What gives a model a simple and elegant fit with one set of phenomena </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83b">may be an idealization that renders it inapt for others. And the represen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55e">tational systems that are simple, elegant, and apt for two different sets of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws667">phenomena may be formally inconsistent. It may or may not turn out that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">it is possible for us to find either a grand unified theory or two compatible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">successor theories that would resolve the problem. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws140">Earlier I quoted Stephen Hawking expressing a growing pessimism about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws812">this prospect. Hawking (along with coauthor Leonard Mlodinow) seems to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52c">have reached a view similar to my own about <span class="ff3e ws0">why</span><span class="ls11 ws6f1"> we might be faced with </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45c">such a situation, in a discussion of what Hawking and Mlodinow (2010) call </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">“model-dependent realism.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y893 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsad3">[Model-dependent realism] is based on the idea that our brains interpret the input </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya6c ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsad4">from our sensory organs by making a model of the world. When such a model is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya6d ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsad5">successful at explaining events, we tend to attribute to it, and to the elements and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya68 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">concepts that constitute it, the quality of reality or absolute truth. (7) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 ya69 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsad6">Like the overlapping maps in a Mercator projection, where the ranges of different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y1da ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsad7">versions overlap, they predict the same phenomena. But just as there is no flat map </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya6e ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsad8">that is a good representation of the earth’s entire surface, there is no single theory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya6f ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsad9">that is a good representation of observations in all situations. There is no picture- or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya6a ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">theory-independent concept of reality. (42) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y82 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsada">It is pointless to ask whether a model is real, only whether it agrees with obser-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya70 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsadb">vation. If there are two models that both agree with observation, like the goldfish’s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya71 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsadc">picture (of the world, through the distorted lens of a spherical fishbowl) and ours </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y342 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsadd">(without this lens distortion), then one cannot say that one is more real than the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya72 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsade">other. One can use whichever model is more convenient in the situation under con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya01 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9f1">sideration. … Model dependent realism applies not only to scientific models but also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya73 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsadf">to the conscious and subconscious mental models we all create in order to interpret </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y345 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsae0">and understand the everyday world. There is no way to remove the observer—us— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya74 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws172">from our perception of the world, which is created though our sensory processing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya75 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsae1">and through the way we think and reason. Our perception—and hence the observa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya76 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsae2">tions upon which our theories are based—is not direct, but rather is shaped by a kind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y540 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">of lens, the interpretive structure of our human brains. (46) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y544 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsae3">It might be that to describe the universe, we have to employ different theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y545 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsae4">in different situations. Each theory may have its own version of reality, but accord-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y546 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws937">ing to model-dependent realism, that is acceptable so long as the theories agree </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y547 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsae5">in their predictions whenever they overlap, that is, whenever they can both be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y541 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">applied. (117) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya6b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab3">Hawking and Mlodinow echo my suggestion that the need for multiple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya77 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae6">models might be a consequence of our cognitive architecture. But an </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
