<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfda" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="da"><div class="pc pcda w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7 h5 ya6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x99 h5 y1c2 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8d h5 y1c3 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7e h5 y263 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y15a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x74 h5 y7ed ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4a h5 y15e ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1c7 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _11e"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x29 h5 y7c0 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xfc h5 ya78 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">229 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b3">element in Hawking and Mlodinow’<span class="_ _2"></span>s remarks helps us to see something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5">else that is also important. Just <span class="ff3e ws0">having</span><span class="ls11 ws570"> multiple models that frame the world </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b6">in different ways may be a fairly innocuous consequence of how the human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66d">mind works. Where we really need to pay attention to potential problems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18">is “whenever they overlap, that is, whenever they can both be applied.” It </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">is only in <span class="ff3e ws0">those</span> cases that they can give rise to contradictory predictions or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse2">inferences. There are plenty of such cases, but in <span class="ff3e ws0">some</span><span class="ls11 ws3e9"> of them, cognitive </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96e">pluralism can help us see that, at least <span class="ff3e ws0">sometimes</span>, we need not be commit-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47c">ted to contradictory judgments licensed by the models if we attend prop-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">erly to the ways the models are idealized and aptly applied. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws495">First, consider an experiment in which a metal object is dropped in prox-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26e">imity to a magnet. If we apply a gravitational model, we will get a descrip-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65d">tion of the resulting motion of the falling object. If we apply a model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15f">electromagnetism, we will get a different description. They <span class="ff3e ws0">will</span><span class="ls12 wsabb"> be different </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws567">descriptions; and if either model is used alone, the resulting prediction will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ca">diverge from the real-world behavior observed, because in fact both gravita-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws415">tion and magnetism are at work. There is nothing here that should be all </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ab">that surprising. More than one force is at work in most mechanical situa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53f">tions, and the resultant behavior of objects is influenced by all the forces </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws554">at work. There is good reason to have separate models of the forces, both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfb">because they are distinct and separable causal patterns in the world and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42">because <span class="ff3e ws0">understanding</span> them separately makes them comprehensible to us. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b6">The bracketing idealizations of the models are both psychologically neces-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">sary and empirically justified. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58e">In <span class="ff3e">Laws, Mind, and Free W<span class="_ _2"></span>ill<span class="ff3c">, I took some empiricist accounts of laws </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae7">to task for treating laws (like those of gravity and electromagnetism) as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a9">though they directly license claims about real-world <span class="ff3e ws0">behavior</span><span class="ls12 ws7">, such as how </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws747">bodies will actually move when dropped. If understood this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84f">laws would have to be seen as entailing conflicting predictions, neither of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72d">which corresponds to the real-world behavior in cases where multiple forces </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5b">are at work. Interpreted as universally quantified claims about how bodies </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws126">actually behave, the laws would be false. But the source of the error is not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1b">that the laws are false but that they should be interpreted not as universally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws450">quantified claims about actual behavior but rather as idealized claims about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws350">the different forces that are causal contributors to that behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The error </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws254">in the interpretation of laws is a philosophical error—resulting, I believe, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d">from an attempt to force scientific laws into a particular logical mold. It is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7a">not an error that any competent scientist or engineer would be likely to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae8">make, though of course the scientist or engineer might <span class="ff3e ws0">overlook</span><span class="ls12 wsae9"> a factor that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa17">was in fact causally relevant in a given case. On the other hand, the classical </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
