<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfdb" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="db"><div class="pc pcdb w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xf h5 y150 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _c4"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y725 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x77 h5 ya79 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xac h5 y9e4 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5ee ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya7a ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x3f h4 ya7b ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 ya7c ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 yda ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">230 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ca">technique of combining the contributions of separate forces through vec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f8">tor algebra is applicable only when all the causal contributors in play have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws562">models that are quantified and independent, and this is not the case with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e9">all pairs of models. But really this is a case in which cognitive pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b5">shows us how to <span class="ff3e ws0">resolve</span> an apparent problem. Gravitational and electro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d1">magnetic models, applied individually and taken as licensing predictions, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">do<span class="ff3c ws580"> generate inconsistent predictions. But understanding how the models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws288">are idealized should caution us not to take the models as licensing exact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws293">predictions individually<span class="_ _2d"></span>, except in cases where only one force is at work, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ad">or the influence of one drowns out the influence of the other within the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">degree of accuracy employed. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsaea">The situation is different in the case of quantum complementarity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57b">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>ave and particle models represent phenomena differently<span class="_ _2"></span>, and wavelike </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws851">behavior is different from particle-like behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In classical optics, particle </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54">theories (Newton) and wave theories (Huygens) were assumed to be <span class="ff3e ws0">com-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">petitor<span class="ff3c wsaeb"> accounts, and experiments were designed to attempt to settle the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56f">question of which was correct. The underlying assumption was that there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws808">must be a single model that captures the “real nature” of light and can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37a">applied to all the cases. Classical optics became absorbed into a broader </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws955">theory of electromagnetism, and classical electrodynamics was superseded </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3f">by quantum theories. But the availability—indeed, the <span class="ff3e">need for</span><span class="ls12 wsa03">—both wave </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fe">and particle models persists in quantum theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. In some experimental set-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6d">ups, phenomena are aptly described by wave models, in others by particle </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaec">models. This description, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, comes with an important caveat: the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaed">experimental setups are mutually exclusive, and so quantum duality is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa35">not understood in terms of two rival accounts of nature. But neither are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws739">the wave and particle models descriptions of separate forces, like gravity </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">and magnetism. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws140">Niels Bohr proposed the doctrine of complementarity to account for this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33e">counterintuitive situation. His description of the issues reflects both cogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tive and pragmatic elements of his analysis. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h1a ya7a ff3e fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaee">However far the [quantum physical] phenomena transcend the scope of classical physical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya7b ff3e fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaef">explanation, the account of all evidence must be expressed in classical terms.<span class="ff3c wsaf0"> The argu-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya7d ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaf1">ment is simply that by the word “experiment” we refer to a situation where we can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya7e ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaf2">tell others what we have done and what we have learned and that, therefore, the ac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya7f ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws469">count of the experimental arrangements and of the results of the observations must </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya80 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws3ff">be expressed in unambiguous language with suitable application of the terminology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya81 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">of classical physics. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 ya7c ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaf3">This crucial point … implies the <span class="ff3e ws953">impossibility of any sharp separation between the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h1a ya82 ff3e fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaf4">behaviour of atomic objects and the interaction with the measuring instruments which </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
