<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf16" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="16"><div class="pc pc16 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 ya8 ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f8 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8f h5 y1f9 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x90 h5 y1fa ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x10 h5 y1fb ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x91 h5 y1fc ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x92 h5 y1fd ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1fe ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ff ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _56"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">16 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 2 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bc">concepts, beliefs, and inferences. There are some important challenges to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">this assumption, which require some attention and clarification. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y200 ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Belief and Judgment </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bd">First, the word ‘belief’ is used in several different ways in philosophy (Horst </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws145">1995). Sometimes, when we speak of someone “having a belief,” we mean </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1be">that she is having a <span class="ffe">psychological episode</span> in which she is mentally affirming </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bf">something. The detective sorts through the evidence and suddenly con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c0">cludes, “The butler did it!” and we report this by saying that she <span class="ffe ls16 wse8">formed a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">belief<span class="ffc ws117"> that the butler did it. But we also speak of people “believing” things </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c1">that they have never thought of at all. Suppose I ask you if you believe that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5">119 + 6 = 125, or that dogs have kidneys. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou easily answer yes; and of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c2">course in the process of thinking about it, you probably actually considered </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f">the proposition in question and mentally endorsed it. But suppose I ask you </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c3">whether you <span class="ffe">believed yesterday</span> that 119 + 6 = 125, or that dogs have kidneys. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c4">When I present this question in a classroom, about half of my students tend </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c5">to say yes and the other half no. I deliberately choose questions that no one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c6">is likely to have explicitly thought about before to eliminate the possibility </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c7">that those who say yes are reporting a <span class="ffe ws0">previous</span><span class="ls11 ws11c"> explicit endorsement. Those </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c8">who say no probably do so because they are restricting the word ‘belief’ to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c9">things we have actually thought about and endorsed. But those who say </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19f">yes are also using the word ‘belief’ in a perfectly standard way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, to report </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ca">things we are implicitly committed to or things we are readily disposed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdc">assent to when prompted. And by my reckoning more often than not, phi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cb">losophers tend to use ‘belief’ in this broader way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, to include what are some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws133">times distinguished as “dispositional beliefs.” Dispositional beliefs are often </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cc">contrasted with “occurrent beliefs”—those that are supposed to be actual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cd">episodes of mental affirmation. Occurrent beliefs are also referred to as <span class="ffe ws0">judg-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ments<span class="ffc ws1ce"> in some areas of philosophy; and as this seems a more elegant way of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cf">referring to mental episodes in which we endorse something, I adopt it here </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d0">as my preferred terminology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, using the word ‘belief’ in the broader sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">that includes dispositions as well. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d1">I have characterized the three-tiered picture in such a fashion as to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b">include both those who are concerned with judgments and those who are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d2">concerned with beliefs in the broader sense. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o the extent that philosophi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d3">cal and psychological theories of intentionality and reasoning are about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">judgments<span class="ffc ws111">, they seem to require a realist interpretation. A claim that some-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d4">one formed a judgment makes a claim about a mental event and can only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d5">be deemed true if some event at least roughly corresponding to the charac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d6">terization actually occurred. But to the extent that such theories are about </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
