<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfdc" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="dc"><div class="pc pcdc w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xfd h4 y231 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc9 h4 y233 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9c h4 y242 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y42c ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _82"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xfe h5 y430 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya83 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">231 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff3e fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaf5">serve to define the conditions under which the phenomena appear<span class="ff3c">. … Consequently, evi-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws11a">dence obtained under different experimental conditions cannot be comprehended </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaf6">within a single picture, but must be regarded as <span class="ff3e ws0">complementary</span> in the sense that only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws826">the totality of the phenomena exhausts the possible information about the objects. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">(Bohr 1949) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y42c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17c">The first paragraph reflects a <span class="ff3e ws0">cognitive</span> constraint, in this case on how evi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y430 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90d">dence is conceived and expressed. The second reflects a <span class="ff3e ws0">pragmatic</span><span class="ls18 ws891"> aspect: </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y431 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84c">our epistemic access is mediated by measuring instruments, and there is no </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y432 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws709">“sharp separation between the behavior of atomic objects and the interac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y433 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws725">tion with the measuring instruments which serve to define the conditions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y434 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b">under which the phenomena appear<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” This leads to a pluralist conclusion: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y435 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">Different experimental setups reveal different patterns of behavior<span class="_ _2"></span>, and we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y436 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35b">need different models to capture the patterns. If the models were taken </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y437 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57f">as descriptions that were independent of experimental setups, they would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y438 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaf7">generate conflicting descriptions and predictions. But in fact, the experi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y439 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaf8">mental setups are mutually exclusive, and the results one obtains with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19f">each are stable. I would interpret this as implying something about how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97a">each model is idealized and where it is aptly applied. T<span class="_ _2"></span>reating the mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws244">els as unidealized would not only generate conflicting predictions but also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8e4">result in an inability to see how we actually have ways of determining with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b">some surety how matter behaves in the different cases. Conversely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws181">example, properly understanding how the models are idealized, and more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y440 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23c">specifically the range of cases in which each can be aptly applied, prevents </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y441 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c">the formal incompatibilities of the models from entailing commitments to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y442 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">contradictory beliefs or predictions about more specific cases. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y443 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cc">But there are other cases in the sciences in which multiple models are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y444 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10a">used to frame discussions that result in incompatible implications that can-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y445 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48">not be resolved by restricting their apt use to particular experimental con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y446 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ee">texts. A useful example is the ongoing debate within biology about the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y447 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws307">proper way to understand species. If we are to believe the developmental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y448 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bb">psychologists, folk biology contains an intuitive concept of species that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y449 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaf9">includes assumptions such as that animals and plants come in species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws163">kinds, individual organisms are produced by parents of the same species, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5b">and members of the same species share characteristic habitats, physiogno-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc9">mies, and diets. The intuitive essentialism of this notion was made explicit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafa">as a philosophical doctrine by Aristotle, who also initiated a project of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74e">understanding species through a taxonomy based on differences in traits, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8fb">which culminated in the Linnaean taxonomic system in the late eighteenth </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y450 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11b">century<span class="_ _2"></span>. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>oday many biologists and philosophers of biology would see this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y451 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafb">type of taxonomic classification as centered on criteria for identification </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
