<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfdd" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="dd"><div class="pc pcdd w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4f1 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97d ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y7c4 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xff h4 ya84 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y49a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya85 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">232 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafc">and differentiation—pragmatic criteria employed by the observer that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46d">are at best contingently related to properties that are salient for a modern </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafd">biological classification. Darwin repositioned the notion of species as the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws554">fundamental unit of evolution, and his theory of evolution provided two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88c">notions that have played a central role in more recent concepts of species: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws669">interbreedable populations and common descent. These two notions, how-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafe">ever<span class="_ _2"></span>, have been emphasized and developed in different ways by theorists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws188">in biology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, resulting in a number of distinct refinements of the concept of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse0">species. (Mayden [1997], for example, distinguishes no less than twenty-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f4">two different concepts of species in biology<span class="_ _2d"></span>.) These may be grouped into </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">two main traditions. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4">The first tradition emerged from the “evolutionary synthesis” of system-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws183">atics, genetics, and evolution (Dobzhansky 1937; Mayr 1942). Mayr’<span class="_ _2"></span>s for-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">mulation of the “biological species concept” was particularly influential: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97d ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaff">[A] species consists of a group of populations which replace each other geographi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97e ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb00">cally or ecologically and of which the neighbouring ones intergrade or interbreed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97f ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb01">wherever they are in contact or which are potentially capable of doing so (with one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y980 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws409">or more of the populations) in those cases where contact is prevented by geographi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y981 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">cal or ecological barriers. … </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y7c4 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb02">Species are groups of actually or potentially interbreeding natural populations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya84 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">which are reproductively isolated from other such groups. (Mayr 1942, 120) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y49a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb03">The notion of “reproductive isolation” is key to the biological species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya86 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb04">concept. One crucial question separating subsequent developments of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya87 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d3">the concept was whether merely extrinsic barriers to interbreeding, such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya88 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws667">geographical separation or ecological barriers like mountain ranges, should </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya89 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb05">count as differentiating species. Dobzhansky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s definition of “isolating </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya8a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws216">mechanisms” was sufficiently broad to imply such a conclusion, though </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya8b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab4">the first quote from Mayr implies the opposite conclusion. The answer </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya8c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb06">one gives to the question has implications for things such as whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya8d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bd">populations that are temporarily isolated thereby count as separate species, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya8e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb07">and (more importantly) whether<span class="_ _2"></span>, if they are later reunited with related </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya8f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb08">populations with which they interbreed, what were separate species can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya90 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb09">then remerge. (Perhaps most strikingly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, if merely geographical isolation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya91 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0a">can be determinative for species separation, various isolated human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya92 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws305">populations were arguably until recently distinct species that have been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya93 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws987">reunited into a single species through the availability of long-distance </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya94 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">transportation.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ya95 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0b">But perhaps more interesting from the standpoint of biology was the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya96 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0c">discovery that in many species, populations that have overlapping habitats </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
