<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfde" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="de"><div class="pc pcde w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26b ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4b h5 y601 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y164 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y30e ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">233 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws502">and are capable of interbreeding in fact do not do so. Isolating mechanisms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaf7">(such as the different mating calls used by distinct populations of repro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws385">ductively compatible birds) seem to be an important factor in speciation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c1">at least among sexually reproducing species, and models that make such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34f">mechanisms central to the concept of species thus highlight and allow con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c4">stitutive inferences about real patterns in nature. At the same time, this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws251">emphasis also involves a costly idealization: most organisms do not repro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaeb">duce sexually—there is no such thing as an interbreeding population of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0d">bacteria or fungi—and in other taxa (particularly plants) hybridization also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab9">plays a significant role that is screened out by the biological species concept. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0e">The second tradition, by contrast, emphasizes common descent. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0f">most influential version of such an approach is the cladistic approach, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdb">based in the notion of a <span class="ff3e ws0">clade</span>, which consists of an ancestor and all its </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws583">descendants, living and extinct. (Depending on the details of the specific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44c">cladistic theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, an “ancestor” might be an individual organism, a popula-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">tion, or a species.) Cladistic classifications are treelike structures; but unlike </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws744">the Linnaean system, they are intended to represent real and evolution-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cd">arily salient relations of lineage and divergence. (Linnaeus, like Aristotle, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb10">assumed species to be unchanging and eternal.) Cladistic classification </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b3">produces representations of a hierarchy of taxonomic levels in a treelike </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc9">structure, in which a species is a lineage between two branching points. Of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws478">course, most such branchings occurred in the remote past, and so the data </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86">for cladistic analysis must often be drawn from morphological “characters” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54f">reconstructible from fossils, though molecular features of DNA can also be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws838">used for modern specimens and for fossils from which reliable DNA infor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws695">mation can be obtained. The use of characters as the basis for constructing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67e">cladograms is what allows the cladistic methodology to be extended to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws861">remote past (something quite important for a classification based on lin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws163">eage), but there is a great deal of dispute over the choice of relevant and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws31">reliable characters that are diagnostic of lineage and relatedness. (T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o take a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws283">toy example, using striped fur as a character would result in a biologically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c7">unrealistic analysis of the relatedness of lions, tigers, and zebras.) While the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae8">goal of cladistics analysis is a reconstruction of lineage, using characters as a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69d">basis for taxonomy runs the risk of the resulting system being a <span class="ff3e ws0">classification </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">system that fails to represent a deeper evolutionary reality<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws672">The distinction between classification systems and biologically signifi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67a">cant units is often noted in the theoretical literature on species. But atti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws351">tudes toward this, and implications drawn for the concept of species, differ<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f0">Mayden (1997), for example, excoriates the conflation of merely pragmatic </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
