<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfdf" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="df"><div class="pc pcdf w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b0 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 ya97 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5 h4 y97e ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y78 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y502 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xe2 h4 ya98 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya99 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9a ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 yda ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">234 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4de">means to differentiate species with the deeper goals of evolutionary biology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">and holds out hope for a species concept that is suitable for the latter: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b0 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb11">Much of the turmoil embodied in the species problem ultimately derives from our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b8 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb12">packaging inappropriate criteria for species into a single concept. This results from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b9 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws632">a traditional conflation of function of concepts with their applications, definitions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b1 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws99d">with concepts, taxonomic categories with groups, and ontological status of real spe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9b ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb13">cies with teleological approaches to recover them. Analogous to classifications of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7d8 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb14">supraspecific taxa, our forging inappropriate and ambiguous information relating </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9c ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb15">to theoretical and operational discussions of species ultimately results in a trade-off </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9d ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb16">between convenience, accuracy, precision, and the successful recovery of natural </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9e ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb17">biological diversity. None of these expectations or intentions of species or classifica-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y6c ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws859">tions is attainable through composite, and possibly discordant, concepts of biologi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9f ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">cal diversity or its descent. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 ya97 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws15b">With this in mind can one tease apart the theoretical concepts and operational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yaa0 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb18">definitions of species and develop a primary concept applicable to the various enti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97d ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb19">ties believed to be species? I think this is possible through a hierarchical view of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y97e ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">species concepts and their definitions. (Mayden 1997, 383) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y78 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws191">Dupré (2001b), by contrast, holds that we should view the concept of spe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y79 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">cies in terms of units of classification rather than of evolution: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y502 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb1a">It is of course possible that the units of evolution could also serve as units of classifi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y503 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb1b">cation, and that this is in fact the case seems to be very widely assumed by writers on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y504 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb1c">the topic. But, and this is the first thesis I shall defend in this paper, units of evolu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4f3 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb1d">tion are far too diverse a set of entities to provide a useable partition of organisms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y505 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb1e">into classificatory units. If this is correct we need to decide whether the term species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y86 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb1f">should be applied to units of evolution or units of classification. And here, if any-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y506 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb20">where in biology, it seems to me we should honour conventions of priority. Species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y507 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb21">were understood to be basal units of a classificatory system millennia before anyone </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y508 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb22">had thought to formulate a theory of evolution. And to this day almost everyone </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y509 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb23">who is not professionally involved in theoretical systematics assumes that the spe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4f4 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb24">cies category is a classificatory concept. So I conclude that species should be treated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya98 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">as units of classification not units of evolution. (Dupré 2001b, 203–204) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya99 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws468">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, Dupré notes that classificatory interests, even within biology<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaa1 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab2">are diverse, leading him to endorse a pluralistic view of classification and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaa2 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">species. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9a ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb25">We do, after all, generally classify the objects with which a scientific theory deals in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yaa3 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb26">relation to the demands of that theory. But this argument, even when more thor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yaa4 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb27">oughly fleshed out, is unconvincing. Classification in biology has a life of its own. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yaa5 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb28">Biologists in areas only tangentially connected to evolutionary theory, such as ecolo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya2 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws223">gists, ethnobotanists, or ethologists, need to classify organisms, as do foresters, con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yaa6 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb29">servationists, gamekeepers, and herbalists. As will be discussed below, for many, per-</div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
