<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe0" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e0"><div class="pc pce0 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xa h4 y801 ff3c fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y91d ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 yaa7 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x1b h5 yaa8 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 yaa9 ff3d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaaa ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">235 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws54f">haps even most groups of organisms, evolutionary considerations are of little or no </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb2a">use for classificatory purposes. And finally birdwatchers, wildflower enthusiasts, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4a0">just biologically engaged members of the public, may choose to classify organisms, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb2b">even if they do not need to do so. These diverse groups of people require workable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb2c">classifications that enable them to communicate among themselves and to members </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1f5">of other such groups, record information about natural history, and so on. If, as I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb2d">argue, units of evolution inadequately meet these needs they must be distinguished </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y245 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb2e">from units of classification. Furthermore, it follows that in biology classification and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y234 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb2f">theory are more autonomous from one another than seems to be the case in most </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y235 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb30">parts of science. The fact that classification cannot, at least, be closely tied to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y800 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb31">central theory of biology leaves room for the thoroughly pragmatic and pluralistic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y801 ff3c fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">approach to biological taxonomy that I shall advocate. (Dupré 2001b, 204) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y91d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e6">While I am not in a position to take a stand on whether there is a viable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaab ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62">unitary notion of species, or a variety of such notions, corresponding to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaac ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws836">units of evolution, Dupré’<span class="_ _2"></span>s analysis at the least sheds light on why we find </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaad ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb32">such a variety of ways of constructing the notion of species, and of classifi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaae ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d8">cations of organisms into species. There are a variety of practical scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaaf ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d2">(and nonscientific) standpoints from which the classification of organisms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab0 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws840">is called for<span class="_ _2"></span>, and these call for different ways of conceptualizing species. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab1 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb33">This is, moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, not merely a matter of arbitrary convention or taste: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab2 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0c">the different approaches reveal different real patterns in the things studied, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab3 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54f">even if which patterns are regarded as salient depends on one’<span class="_ _2"></span>s theoretical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab4 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb34">and practical interests. From the standpoint of cognitive pluralism, the fact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab5 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fc">that different pursuits—including various scientific pursuits—require us to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab6 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fe">adopt different models that cross-classify to bring the various salient pat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab7 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c2">terns to light means that we have a need for a variety of models that are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab8 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2b">not fully aligned with one another<span class="_ _2"></span>, which produce different verdicts on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yab9 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">boundaries of species but are apt for different purposes. And this may well </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yaba ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4dd">be a principled and abiding disunity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, as the different purposes and salient </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yabb ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf2">patterns may well not prove to be reducible to a single common denomina-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yabc ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws874">tor<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Dupré’<span class="_ _2"></span>s other point—that there is more than one factor relevant to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yabd ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc7">“units of evolution”—likewise gives us reason to suspect that we may <span class="ff3e ws0">require </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yabe ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa05">multiple conceptual frameworks to fully understand them separately<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yabf ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a8">may not be possible to compress these into a single model that can serve as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yac0 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">an optimal successor to the intuitive notion of species. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 yac1 ff3d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">12.5 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11">Irreducibility </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yac2 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6db">I will try<span class="_ _2"></span>, much more briefly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, to summarize some potential barriers to inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yac3 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws647">model reduction. One of the most straightforward of these is simply that </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
