<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe1" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e1"><div class="pc pce1 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y150 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _3e"> </span> <span class="_ _11f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc6 h5 y151 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _120"> </span><span class="ls7 ws5e9"> </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yac4 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yac5 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _ef"> </span> <span class="_ _9a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xf6 h5 yac6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x20 h5 yac7 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y156 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">236 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws203">the would-be reducing model lacks the formal resources needed for a con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws583">struction of the model one is seeking to reduce. The most important and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30f">familiar family of cases of this type consists of normative models such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a3">those involving ethical principles. The familiar adage “you cannot derive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ought<span class="ff3c ws128"> from </span>is<span class="ff3c ws128">” may originally have been posed as a claim about deductive </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ea">inferences in arguments, but it is equally applicable to the reconstruction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsed">of one model from another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Models suited only to talking about facts and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws327">regularities lack a kind of resource that is distinctive of those models that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b7">can be used to frame normative claims. The latter are not what mathema-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws50d">ticians would call a “conservative extension” of the former<span class="_ _2"></span>. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o get from a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e9">purely positive to a normative model, you need to <span class="ff3e">add something new</span>. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8fb">find a similar situation with the relationship between modal and nonmodal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws147">logics: whereas it is possible to, say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, treat the various logical connectives in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68f">first-order logic as constructions from a single (albeit less intuitive) connec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46e">tive, it is not possible to construct the modal operators for necessity and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws375">possibility from nonmodal resources. The reasons for this sort of irreduc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c4">ibility are straightforward, but the implications are significant: whatever </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50d">the state of our model(s) of purely positive claims, such as empirical facts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61">and laws, they cannot provide a sufficient basis for reconstructing the con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tent of our normative and modal models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a">T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo of the more familiar philosophical objections to reductionism are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws416">multiple realization and emergence. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e speak of multiple realization prin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b6">cipally when some functionally specified kind—like AND-gate or heart—is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f8">always (or at least often) built out of some physical components, but there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4a">are many physical configurations that could be used to make something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e0">with the same functional description. It may well be that, in each separate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2dc">case, the functionally specified system has the functional properties it does </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse1">as a result of its physical configuration. But this falls short of a reduction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4aa">for two reasons. First, the models used for the realizing system (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, phys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb35">ics or cellular biology) do not contain the relevant functional concepts. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Given<span class="ff3c wsb5"> a model containing those concepts </span>and<span class="ff3c ls11 ws39a"> a sufficiently rich physical </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb36">or biological description of an individual system, one might be able to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10e">deduce <span class="ff3e ws0">that</span> it was an AND-gate or a heart, but only by way of compar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f6">ing it with the standards supplied by the functional model. Second, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e">physical or biological model does not capture the relevant generalizations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws675">of the functional model: the functional laws do not “pop out” <span class="ff3e ws0">as</span><span class="ls16 ws8f8"> laws, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf3">and thus, without the functional model, real and salient patterns would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wse8">go unrecognized. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa40">Dennett’<span class="_ _2"></span>s case for the independence and need for the intentional stance </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c6">seems to involve considerations of both of the aforementioned types. On </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
