<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe2" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e2"><div class="pc pce2 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x9d h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y26c ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26d ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y295 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9ca ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _7a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9d6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5d h5 y9d7 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">237 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14d">the one hand, in his view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, intentionality is a notion tied to rational <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">norms<span class="ff3c ls0">, </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws907">and those norms cannot be constructed from physical-stance or design-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws814">stance characterizations. On the other hand, when we adopt the inten-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws173">tional stance, we are able to discern real patterns that would go unnoticed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e">without it. Those who take a functionalist view of intentionality agree with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d">something like the second point—that the generalizations of intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">psychology do not “pop out” of physical or neuroscientific descriptions. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa0a">I am inclined to agree with Dennett, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, that our understanding of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b4">intentional states is not purely functional, like our understanding of AND </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65b">gates or even hearts. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, we have special ways of conceiving of agents </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws353">and agency that have their own proprietary concepts, stemming originally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20">from the core agency system, that cannot be reconstructed in physical <span class="ff3e ws0">or </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">functional terms. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws352">Arguments for the irreducibility of consciousness proceed along similar </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21">lines. Levine (1983), Jackson (1982), and Nagel (1974) argue that the frame-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42f">works provided by the physical sciences do not provide even candidate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws676">explainers from which we could derive the characteristic features of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b7">first-person phenomenology of experience. Chalmers (1996) makes things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws718">more explicit: our understanding of the physical world is cast entirely in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb37">terms of structural and functional properties, but neither structural nor </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb38">functional properties supply the right sorts of resources for deriving the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">qualitative character of experience. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e5">These considerations might suggest that we encounter problems of irre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6a1">ducibility specifically in the case of human phenomena: intentionality<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cc">consciousness, normativity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. And perhaps we find special kinds of problems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e5">for reduction here that we do not find elsewhere. However<span class="_ _2"></span>, as I argued in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c4">Beyond Reduction<span class="ff3c"> (2007), we find very few true reductions in the natural sci-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d1">ences, either<span class="_ _2d"></span>. And at least in some cases, when we look at particular types </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22">of models and their would-be reducers, we can see principled reasons why </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">this might be so. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaac">The word ‘emergence’ is used to describe a number of supposed rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74a">tionships in nature. Here I am concerned with a type of “emergence” that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws758">would consist in phenomena that occur only in systems of a certain size </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f3">or certain degree of complexity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, whose occurrence and principles cannot </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb39">be derived from models of the behavior of their constituent parts. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws125">level of complexity need not be a very <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">high<span class="ff3c ls11 ws126"> level of complexity or the size </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws225">very great. Indeed, a useful example is found in the fact that atomic-level </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc0">properties (e.g., the behavior of electrons in orbitals) and molecular-level </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e5">properties (e.g., involving the sharing of electrons) cannot be fully derived </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws263">from particle-level properties (e.g., of how free electrons behave). One way </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
