<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe3" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e3"><div class="pc pce3 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x27 h5 y1c3 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4c h5 y9c5 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y55b ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9c6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _59"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">238 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws729">of looking at this, sometimes favored by emergentists, is to say that there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc8">are “new” properties that “emerge” only in complex systems. (And so we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws828">need separate models of all the relevant sorts of complex systems.) This </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a5">would pose a problem analogous to the inability to derive the regularities </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws754">of functional systems, though it is not a case of multiple realization. It </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2">seems to me that one could also view the problem from a different angle: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa">that individual electrons <span class="ff3e ws0">do</span> have (dispositional) properties to behave in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2">particular ways in orbitals, to play roles in molecular bonding, and so on, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws549">but these properties will be screened out in experiments that are performed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws844">on free electrons. From a cognitive standpoint, to obtain a good model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f">free electron behavior<span class="_ _2"></span>, we need to bracket other (dispositional) properties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wscc">of electrons, and hence the model of free electron behavior is idealized in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bf">way that prevents derivation of the emergent phenomena. But there is no </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1e">reason we could not read the dispositional properties they manifest in par-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">ticular complex systems back onto the individual electrons. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>et note that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws321">in so doing, we are not reducing our model of atomic-level phenomena to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">models of how the constituent particles behave “on their own,” but rather </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66b">building dispositions for atomic-level behavior into our models of particles </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3a">in the form of dispositions, capacities, and powers <span class="ff3e ls11">that need to be specified </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">in higher-level terms<span class="ff3c ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68c">This, in turn, leads to a broader issue. Some models are “outward look-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25e">ing” in that they assume something about a broader and more encompass-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws177">ing context. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>ake, for example, a model of an organism that treats it as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws717">embedded in an environment. Such a model may be designed primarily to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws339">bring out features of the organism but treats it as an open system. Perhaps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ee">some of the salient extrinsic variables will be specified but an open-ended </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b7">number left unspecified. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, some of the features of the organism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws642">that are thus highlighted will be inseparable from the broader context: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c0">respiration, nutrition, procreation, and being predator or prey cannot be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7">understood as features of the organism in isolation. Indeed, if you were to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c7">try to reconstruct these notions in terms not centered on the organism as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50c">the canonical level of description, the natural way to do so would be by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25f">moving outward<span class="ff3c">, to a description of a larger and more encompassing system, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33e">defined at a higher level of organization, rather than by microexplanation. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18f">Reductive microexplanation is thus a strategy ill suited to capturing the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws451">generalizations or explanatory power of such models, because what they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3b">depend on is a larger and more complex, rather than a smaller<span class="_ _2"></span>, system. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d6">Likewise, the biological species concept and cladistic concepts of species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e1">are defined in terms of actual and possible interbreeding relations in popu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsacc">lations and of historical lineages, respectively<span class="_ _2d"></span>. These concepts cannot be </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
