<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe5" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e5"><div class="pc pce5 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26b ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xea h5 y6b6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e8 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6ed ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">240 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws556">model is more powerful than acquiring individual beliefs because models, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws283">while confined to particular content domains, are nonetheless systematic. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws371">Models provide ways of representing and reasoning about any number of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws499">states of affairs within their domains. The range of models available to us </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23a">is further expanded through their complementary relationship with lan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws719">guage and language-like thinking, by social transmission, and by more regi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d4">mented processes of inquiry such as those found in philosophical analysis </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3f">and the sciences. These allow us not only to create new models, but also to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws968">refine existing models, to consider and use multiple models, and to test one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">model against another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81f">On the other hand, the very features that make this strategy so power-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a9">ful—that models are used to frame and produce judgments, that model-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94b">based inference methods are well suited to their domains, and above all </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb40">that models are idealized and employ particular types of representations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e">and inference rules—can also result in disunities in understanding and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws438">belief. Most obviously<span class="_ _2d"></span>, just having multiple models is itself a modest form </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3c">of disunity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. More troubling is that models with different representational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb41">systems and inference rules can produce inconsistent beliefs and judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2e">ments. And this offends a second epistemic sensibility: a desire that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">things we understand and believe be <span class="ff3e">consistent</span><span class="ls12 ws3c"> with one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a2">A model-based architecture for understanding is characterized by a built-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws395">in tension between comprehensiveness and consistency<span class="_ _2d"></span>. W<span class="_ _2"></span>e acquire more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb42">comprehensive understanding first and foremost through having more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32a">models, but the addition of each new model carries the risk of generating </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws905">more inconsistencies with the commitments of other models. Sometimes, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c4">of course, apparent inconsistencies turn out to be illusory: two models may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96e">have incompatible commitments, but these imply inconsistent judgments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97">about the world only in cases where both models are aptly applied to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58d">same situations. In cases like quantum complementarity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it turns out that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7a5">the conflicting models are aptly applied to disjoint sets of cases and as a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66">result do not commit us to inconsistent judgments about particular cases. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28c">And sometimes we are able to resolve the problem by replacing one or both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43">models with one or more successors that do not jointly produce inconsis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">tent judgments. Our drive to resolve conflicts and inconsistencies provides </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws130">a kind of regulative norm for both philosophy and science. But there is no </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws762">guarantee that it can be carried out to its ideal conclusion, whether in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d2">form of a single comprehensive and self-consistent model or at least a set of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">distinct models that play well together<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws646">What should we do when faced with a trade-off between comprehen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb43">siveness and consistency<span class="_ _2d"></span>, beyond hoping for a better day? One way of </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
