<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe6" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e6"><div class="pc pce6 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xdc h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xad h5 y160 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb1 h5 y602 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws51d"> <span class="_ _123"> </span><span class="ls0 ws0"> </span></div><div class="t m0 x20 h5 y161 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x85 h5 y9aa ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yac8 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _124"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x5d h5 yac9 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x33 h5 yaca ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y273 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">241 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws494">eliminating inconsistency<span class="_ _2d"></span>, of course, would be to simply <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff3e">stop using<span class="ff3c ls18 ws9d3"> one of </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6e">the models that plays a role in producing it. But in practice, both in science </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8cd">and in ordinary life, we in fact seem to care more about understanding as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws849">many things as possible than we do about having a single model or even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86">eliminating paradoxes. Thus, to quote Hawking and Mlodinow<span class="_ _2d"></span>, we counte-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44d">nance the possibility that “it might be that to describe the universe, we <span class="ff3e ls10 ws0">have </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">to<span class="ff3c ws1af"> employ different theories in different situations” (Hawking and Mlodi-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb44">now 2010, 117; italics mine). Outside of science, we are probably even more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a">comfortable having different ways of understanding situations that work </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws960">for us, are less likely to be aware of the discordances between them, and are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa9c">troubled only when the discord is brought to our attention—and perhaps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c3">even then only to the extent that we are philosophically inclined. When </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64a">push comes to shove, comprehensiveness generally trumps consistency: we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cb">care more about having good-enough ways of understanding and dealing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f5">with a variety of situations than about how well all that understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51d">and all those beliefs hang together as a whole. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e <span class="ff3e ws0">need</span><span class="ls11 wsa09"> understanding, and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd8">hence the models that supply it. Consistency is something we <span class="ff3e ws0">want<span class="ff3c ls10">—and </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">some care about it more than others—but it is not something we <span class="ff3e">need</span><span class="ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29e">But in what sense do we <span class="ff3e ws0">need</span><span class="ls11 ws53f"> understanding? In one sense, this might </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws882">simply mean we have a strong internal <span class="ff3e ws0">drive</span><span class="ls11 ws761"> for it. And it is easy to see why </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7d3">such a drive would be biologically adaptive: the more about our environ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88e">ment we understand, the more we can deal with in adaptive ways. What </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb45">Hawking and Mlodinow seem to have in mind, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, is something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cd">slightly different: we “need” multiple scientific models if we are to explain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33a">all the data. Most human beings have gotten on quite well without any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws674">understanding of the phenomena that make up the subject matter of con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb46">temporary physics—we do not need it in a biological sense—but one of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws648">effects of human cognitive evolution is that our potential range of inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69f">ests has expanded well beyond “interests” in the biological sense. But the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6be">“need” here is still a kind of <span class="ff3e ws0">pragmatic</span><span class="ls11 wsab"> need: we need a model M if we are to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">understand (and be able to intervene on) X. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ba">Of course, the range of things we have interests in understanding and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5c3">acting on goes well beyond science. And in many cases, the goal of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a">theoretical understanding that covers all the data, which looms large for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70b">a theoretical physicist like Hawking, is either far less important or lack-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b0">ing altogether<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Philosophers working in metaethics care about the merits </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb47">of various metaethical theories—consequentialist, deontological, virtue </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws738">theoretic—and as a consequence they are interested at a theoretical level </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb33">in the fact that these theories can produce contradictory evaluations of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84d">which actions are morally praiseworthy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and interested in questions about </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
