<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe7" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e7"><div class="pc pce7 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xb2 h5 y26b ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y161 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y7f2 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">242 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>12 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb48">whether one can be reduced to another or whether one can decisively be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws905">shown superior to the others. But the metaethical theories are themselves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws751">likely grounded in ways of evaluating persons and actions that are part of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws590">the developmentally normal cognitive tool kit. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e quite naturally evaluate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">actions in terms of their costs and benefits, regard people as having duties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bd">that they fulfill or shirk, and attribute character traits that we admire or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a8">despise. Sometimes we are perplexed when we find that different means of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws775">evaluation lead us to opposing conclusions about which people or actions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">are good. And a given individual might habitually use one mode of evalu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb49">ation in preference to the others. But even when faced with conflicting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23b">intuitions, we probably seldom even consider the possibility of <span class="ff3e">giving up</span><span class="ls0 ws2f1"> a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26">mode of moral evaluation. Each of them provides insights that the others </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bd">cannot, and though these may be quite unlike the explanation of scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e2">data, a similar principle is at work: that, when push comes to shove, we are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws170">willing to pay the price of perplexity or paradox rather than lose a useful </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">and powerful tool for insight. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws282">This, moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, may point to a different kind of “necessity”: there may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a3">be some kinds of models that we are in some sense psychologically inca-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws143">pable of giving up. Modes of ethical evaluation and perhaps an assumption </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws869">of freedom that is implicit in some of them might fall into this class, as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa21">might assumptions about a world of classical objects in space and time, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25d">models of causation and teleology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It is not that people—or at least some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8e">people—cannot conceive of alternatives and even endorse them at a theo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ca">retical level. Some people can and do regard classical objects, causation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68b">teleology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, free will, and ethical properties as illusions or even as nonsense. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws808">But this does not mean that these theoretical commitments prevent them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws665">from forming judgments, or at least candidate judgments, on the basis of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4a">deeply entrenched models that assume them. At best, it may allow them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws576">to reflectively disavow the truth of the judgments or the aptness of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws390">models. Note, though, that this too reflects a kind of disunity if, in making </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12c">or being disposed toward such judgments, one treats them as true and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">models as apt but reflectively disavows them. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y148 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws150">And while the situation is most striking when it involves models that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws356">operate automatically and perhaps even ubiquitously<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it also appears in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88">lesser form whenever we employ models about which we have reservations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4b">or we know to have limitations. Being an academician, for example, has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">provided me with no small number of occasions to become aware of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a6">limitations of my understanding of particular topics, and the even greater </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c7">limitations of the simpler models of those topics that I try to convey in my </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ee">courses. In my course on early modern philosophy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, for example, I present </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
