<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfe8" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="e8"><div class="pc pce8 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x3a h5 ya6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yacb ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9a h5 ya18 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6 h5 y78f ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf8 h5 y7be ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x55 h5 yacc ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _c2"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y9c6 ff3c fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e5"> </span> <span class="_ _6a"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff3d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">243 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Disunities of Knowledge, Science, and Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96c">stories about figures like Descartes, Hume, and Kant. I try to avoid say-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws818">ing anything truly <span class="ff3e ws0">false</span> but know full well that I leave out things that are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73b">ultimately important: for example, saying that Descartes equated matter </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e7">with extension and hence matter has its properties necessarily leaves out </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ec">other features of the Cartesian system such as the role of divine choice in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4c">deciding how matter would be divided into particles and even in decid-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fc">ing what the truths of logic and mathematics should be. I also know just </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cd">enough about the scholarship on such issues to recognize that I do not fully </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87a">understand how they fit together in Descartes’<span class="_ _2"></span>s thought. (And, as my fellow </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws844">philosophers have no doubt experienced for themselves, saying anything, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f9">particularly anything critical, about Kant in a professional context risks </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws534">having any Kant scholars in the audience explaining many things I do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws568">understand about Kant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s philosophy<span class="_ _2d"></span>.) I use mental models of the thought </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws800">and works of other philosophers in my thinking, teaching, and writing, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66b">at the same time I am aware that these models are not fully adequate. And, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of course, this goes for any number of nonphilosophical topics as well. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y110 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50e">This is, perhaps, a kind of expression of the Socratic virtue of knowing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws501">what you do not know (or understand). It strikes me that anyone who has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82c">developed this intellectual virtue is always in something like the position of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd">the advocate of a mild form of negative theology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff3e ws0">strong<span class="ff3c wsbd"> form of nega-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws341">tive theology says that our concepts are so unsuited to talking about God </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18d">that we can say nothing true about God and perhaps ought not to try<span class="_ _2"></span>. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f4">milder form says that all our theological claims must be hedged: “<span class="ff3e ws0">This</span><span class="ls16 ws8be">, but </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsed">not <span class="ff3e ws0">quite</span> this, and much more as well.” I think that a proper appreciation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a8">of the idealized and perspectival character of understanding based in men-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws4db">tal models should lead us to adopt a similar attitude much more broadly<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e make claims using the models we have—what alternative do we have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsed">beyond a principled silence? But we also know that the resources of those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4d">models are limited, some in ways we understand, and no doubt others in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4e">ways that we do not. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o the extent that the model is apt, we count as true </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws307">the best ways we have of expressing what can be said using its resources. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff3c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws481">But we should be reluctant to say that it is <span class="ff3e ws0">the</span> truth, the <span class="ff3e ws0">whole</span><span class="ls12 ws85"> truth, or </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff3e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">nothing but<span class="ff3c ls12 ws3c"> the truth. </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
