<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfea" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ea"><div class="pc pcea w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xac h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _126"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xf8 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _65"> </span> <span class="_ _b4"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x6c h5 yfd ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y601 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1 h5 y180 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y337 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y296 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _127"> </span> <span class="_ _128"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x14 h5 y2b8 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">246 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>13 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e5">intuitive claims was the parallel postulate: that for any line <span class="ff42 ls0 ws0">L</span> and point <span class="ff42 ls0 ws0">P </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc8">not on <span class="ff42 ls0 ws0">L</span>, there is exactly one line passing through <span class="ff42 ls0 ws0">P</span> that is parallel to <span class="ff42 ls0 ws0">L<span class="ff40">. </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws199">The founders of non-Euclidean geometries, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, recognized that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2db">parallel postulate could be denied without self-contradiction, and various </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsab5">alternatives to it would result in distinct alternative geometries. Euclid’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws299">parallel postulate may <span class="ff42 ws0">seem</span> as though it must be true, but the reason for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws181">that is to be found not in the definitions and axioms of the system or the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31d">principle of noncontradiction but in a separate set of “spatial intuitions” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b3">to which the human mind is strongly biased. This discovery caused a crisis </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d1">in mathematics, spawning the formalist movement, which sought to find </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34c">ways of reconstructing mathematical systems in terms not dependent on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">mathematical intuitions. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb53">In contemporary philosophy<span class="_ _2"></span>, appeals to “intuitions” are often used </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb54">to justify important claims. In metaphysics, claims about what is neces-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws538">sary and what is possible—things that go beyond what could be settled </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8b">by empirical experimentation—are often explicitly grounded in “modal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws624">intuitions”: for example, that there could be a being that was a molecule-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd1">for-molecule duplicate of you but lacked conscious experience (Chalmers </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws960">1996). In ethics, not only claims that some particular action is good or evil, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb55">but also fundamental claims such as that human beings have natural rights, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55e">are justified by appeals to intuitions. However<span class="_ _2"></span>, unlike mathematical intu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb56">itions, which tend to be about things that everyone, or at least the experts, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws359">agree on, appeals to intuitions in contemporary metaphysics and ethics are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c">often precisely about matters that people have <span class="ff42 ws0">different</span><span class="ls11 ws211"> intuitions about. </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws621">For some, what seems intuitively obvious is that a molecular duplicate of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws314">a person would have to have all the same mental states, and Jeremy Ben-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws112">tham famously quipped that the notion of natural and inalienable rights is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">“nonsense on stilts.” </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39f">Intuitions, in the sense of judgments that are not reached on the basis </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e">of explicit reasoning from something else yet strike us as clearly true (and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35e">hence not requiring further justification), are by no means the sole prov-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc">ince of mathematicians and philosophers. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e think intuitively all the time </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8e4">in daily life. Indeed, if you were to monitor the judgments you make on an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91a">average day<span class="_ _2d"></span>, you would probably find that most of them were not reached </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a5">through any kind of argumentation or reasoning (or at least not any you </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20d">could detect). Much of the time, intuitive judgments are nonetheless quite </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff42 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">dependable<span class="ff40 wsa6d">. In fact, when you think about it, any reasoning you </span>do<span class="ff40 ls18 ws3a4"> engage </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab">in has to start with some set of assumptions that serve as the premises from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e7">which you derive the conclusion. The conclusion is derived through rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">soning <span class="ff42">from the premises</span>, but on what basis did you believe the premises? </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
