<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfec" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ec"><div class="pc pcec w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b0 ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x4 h4 ya9e ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad0 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad1 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _12c"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yad2 ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x31 h4 y8ff ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 yda ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">248 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>13 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47">process” or “dual system theories.” One of the main figures working in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">area, Daniel Kahneman, writing with Shane Frederick, summarizes: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b0 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb5f">The ancient idea that cognitive processes can be partitioned into two main fami-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b8 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws579">lies—traditionally called intuition and reason—is now widely embraced under the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b9 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb60">general label of dual-process theories. … Dual-process models come in many flavors, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8b1 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsadc">but all distinguish cognitive operations that are quick and associative from others </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9b ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb61">that are slow and rule-governed. … We adopt the generic labels System 1 and System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7d8 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb62">2 from Stanovich and West. These terms may suggest the image of autonomous </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9c ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb63">homunculi, but such a meaning is not intended. We use systems as a label for col-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9d ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb64">lections of processes that are distinguished by their speed, controllability, and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya9e ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">contents on which they operate. (Kahneman and Frederick 2002, 51) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad0 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb65">The quote shows that the notion of “dual systems” really indicates two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad1 ff42 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">classes<span class="ff40 ws235"> of processes, differentiated in terms of their speed and controllabil-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad3 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws587">ity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. There might be numerous more specific processes sharing the System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad4 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70a">1 profile, which presumably might operate through different mechanisms. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad5 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa37">In spite of our tendency to disparage intuition by contrast to deliberate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad6 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb66">reasoning, System 1 reasoning can be very good at what it does, and is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad7 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f3">recognized as an important feature of expertise, the acquisition of which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad8 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56e">involves the transition from System 2 to System 1 processes. Kahneman </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yad9 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">and Frederick continue: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yad2 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws50">Although System 1 is more primitive than System 2, it is not necessarily less ca-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y688 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb67">pable. On the contrary, complex cognitive operations eventually migrate from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yada ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb68">System 2 to System 1 as proficiency and skill are acquired. A striking demonstra-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yadb ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb69">tion of the intelligence of System 1 is the ability of chess masters to perceive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yadc ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb6a">the strength or weakness of chess positions instantly. For those experts, pattern </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yadd ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb6b">matching has replaced effortful serial processing. Similarly, prolonged cultural ex-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f0 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsaff">posure eventually produces a facility for social judgments—for example, an ability </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yade ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb6c">to recognize quickly that “a man whose dull writing is occasionally enlivened by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yadf ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb6d">corny puns” is more similar to a stereotypical computer programmer than to a ste-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yae0 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb6e">reotypical accountant. In the particular dual-process model we assume, System 1 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yae1 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb6f">quickly proposes intuitive answers to judgment problems as they arise, and System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y94 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb70">2 monitors the quality of these proposals, which it may endorse, correct, or over-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8f7 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f">ride. The judgments that are eventually expressed are called intuitive if they retain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8f8 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb71">the hypothesized initial proposal without much modification. The roles of the two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8f9 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb72">systems in determining stated judgments depend on features of the task and of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fa ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb73">the individual, including the time available for deliberation …, the respondent’s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fb ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb74">mood …, intelligence …, and exposure to statistical thinking. … We assume that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fc ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb75">System 1 and System 2 can be active concurrently, that automatic and controlled </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fd ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb76">cognitive operations compete for the control of overt responses, and that deliber-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8fe ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb77">ate judgments are likely to remain anchored on initial impressions. (Kahneman </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8ff ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb78">and Frederick 2002, 51) </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
