<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfed" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ed"><div class="pc pced w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26c ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _12d"> </span> <span class="_ _121"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9c9 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x101 h5 y9af ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x55 h5 y271 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x23 h5 y3e9 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">249 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Models and Intuition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws775">In the latter part of this quote, Kahneman and Frederick seem to assign to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8">System 2 processes only a kind of monitoring function. I think this would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88c">be an overstatement, as we are also capable of using regimented reasoning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws764">processes like application of logical syllogisms or rules of column addition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa03">in a deliberately controlled way to produce judgments, and explicit reason-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws830">ing allows us to derive conclusions we are unable to reach through System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86b">1 thinking. But my main reason for introducing the foregoing quotes is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3de">to provide perspective on how some psychologists think about intuitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35f">reasoning: it is a kind of thinking that occurs rapidly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, automatically<span class="_ _2"></span>, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws916">through processes that are often skilled yet “opaque”—that is, cognitively </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">impenetrable. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws739">Other psychologists speak of <span class="ff42 ws0">concepts</span> and <span class="ff42 ws0">judgments</span><span class="ls11 ws5d6"> as being intuitive </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws60">or counterintuitive. In cognitive science of religion, Paul Bloom (2004, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws553">2007) claims that both children and adults are “intuitive dualists.” Pas-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52f">cal Boyer and Justin Barrett, by contrast, claim that supernatural concepts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9">like those of immaterial souls and ghosts are “minimally counterintuitive” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws846">(Boyer 2001; Barrett 2004a, 2004b, 2009). Calling a judgment or a concept </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31">“intuitive” here seems to mean that it is “intuitively recommended”—that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb79">is, seemingly true, plausible, or<span class="_ _2"></span>, in the case of concepts, unproblematic. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws489">‘Counterintuitive’ seems to mean the opposite of this: a counterintuitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70f">judgment or concept is one that comes with an internal sense that there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">must be something peculiar about it. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y116 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfd">These references to contemporary psychology<span class="_ _2"></span>, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, do not tell us </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws827">much that we did not know before. Beyond the important claim that <span class="ff42 ws0">exper-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff42 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tise<span class="ff40 ws919"> is characteristically exercised through intuitive processes, they largely </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7a">just confirm the distinctions we have already developed. The claim that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3a">intuitive processes are “automatic” amounts to little more than the claim </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62c">that they are not the kind of processes found in explicit reasoning, in which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">we can control and monitor the steps. The fact that they are fast—that is, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7b">fast <span class="ff42">by contrast with methodical explicit reasoning</span><span class="ls12 ws7ff">—may be no more than a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7c">consequence of the fact that the latter sort of process is slow and labori-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws501">ous. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, intuitive processes do not always <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff42 ws0">seem<span class="ff40 ws501"> to be fast: the devel-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c2">opment of a creative idea or an intellectual insight might require a great </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14">deal of time. When I reach an impasse in writing, I often do something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f0">else—take a walk or sleep on it—allowing unconscious parts of my mind to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws707">work on the problem. Sometimes it is a matter of hours, days, or months </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">before an answer pops into my awareness. Of course, precisely because the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa26">process is unconscious, it is difficult to determine just when it is at work </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws774">or how long it takes. It may be that the actual process takes milliseconds </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws733">and happens just before I am aware of the outcome. Or it may be that some </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
