<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfef" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ef"><div class="pc pcef w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x42 h5 y150 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x22 h5 y56d ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd3 h5 y56e ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8b h5 y9e4 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y299 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa7 h5 yafb ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x88 h5 y5ef ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x102 h5 y9ce ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">251 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Models and Intuition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb80">act in a goal-directed fashion and that people act on the basis of their beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95b">and desires are fundamental principles of these models. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e use such mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20c">els automatically and routinely; and to use the models at all is to constitute </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws906">things as agents with goals or with beliefs and desires. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou cannot consti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20d">tute something as an <span class="ff42 ws0">action</span><span class="ls12 ws8bc"> without imputing goals, beliefs, or desires. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d2">can reject the aptness of the model for particular cases and assent to the use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ab">of another interpretive framework instead—it was a patellar reflex and not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws664">a deliberate kick, it was an animatronic robot following a program—but in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47a">so doing, you reject not only the beliefs and desires but the applicability of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">the whole framework of imputing <span class="ff42 ws0">agency</span><span class="ls11 ws585"> at all. A candidate judgment that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e3">violates these rules triggers a particular type of cognitive dissonance with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d6">the model, and this is experienced as its being counterintuitive. A judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws779">ment that expresses the content of the rules is quickly and unconsciously </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22f">confirmed as being an implication of the model, is experienced as being </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb81">intuitively recommended, and can be produced by some mechanism that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3c">translates the implicit rules of the model into propositional form or con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws355">firmed by a mechanism that compares the propositional expression with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws122">the rules of the model. Judgments like “agents have goals” seem like <span class="ff42 ws0">neces-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff42 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15b">sary truths<span class="ff40">, perhaps even platitudes, because to think or talk about agency </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a7">at all, one must be using a model that imputes goals, beliefs, or desires. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws587">Indeed, there are clear senses in which they <span class="ff42 ws0">are</span><span class="ls11 ws131"> necessary truths. “Agents </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79b">have goals” is something like an implicit axiom of models of agency<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a5">hence is true-in-agency-models in much the way the parallel postulate is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83f">true-in-Euclidean-geometry<span class="_ _2"></span>. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o use agency models at all, one must treat </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws590">things constituted as agents as things that act to achieve their goals, and in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f2">order for the constitution of something as an agent to be apt, the imputa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion of goals to it must be apt as well. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae9">Similar things can be said about the intuitive representation of objects in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws89f">space. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o represent something as being in space, one must represent it in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws570">fashion that assumes that there is space on all sides of it. (Of course, “space” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44c">is said in a proprietary sense here, corresponding to a <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff42 ws0">geometrically<span class="ff40 ls18 ws965"> defined </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb82">space, not as “<span class="ff42 ws0">empty</span> space.” If someone says, “There is no space to the left of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad1">the cabinet,” because the left side of the cabinet is flush against a wall, they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d8">mean there is no <span class="ff42 ws0">empty</span> space, not that the wall exists outside space.) This </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws121">seems to be a basic feature of the model (or a set of models) we use to repre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws563">sent objects in space. As a consequence, the question “Is there (geometric) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws357">space to the left of it?” seems absurd to ask, as the answer is a straightfor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws957">ward consequence of basic principles of the model and hence, from the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e8">standpoint of someone working within the model, should go without say-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa22">ing. The assertion “There is nothing to the left of it, not even empty space,” </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
