<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pff0" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="f0"><div class="pc pcf0 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y352 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y40a ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y775 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y974 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws7ee"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y46c ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1 h5 y975 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">252 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>13 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42a">is highly counterintuitive, because you have to use a spatial model to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws957">make sense of it at all, yet what is asserted violates the implicit rules of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">the model. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws725">In some cases, we may be unable to form a representation of the candi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44">date content within the model at all. Our spatial intuitions may be unable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa30">to accommodate a representation of a three-dimensional space that curves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4c">back on itself like the two-dimensional surface of a sphere. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b7">ceive of such things through other means—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, mathematically—but they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c6">seem abidingly counterintuitive because they are dissonant with a deeply </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45d">ingrained model of spatial geometry that is more or less Euclidean. Likewise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">there is a way in which ways of thinking about things for which I do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ed">already have a model are bound to seem counterintuitive—that is, they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48b">seem counterintuitive at least until I acquire and master the model. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws219">pronouncements of contemporary science often seem baffling, nonsensi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33b">cal, or even plainly impossible at first. They lose something of this air once </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws327">we master the scientific model in which they are couched, and may even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa96">seem routine and obvious to the practicing scientist when she is using the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">requisite models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d5">The examples of agential and spatial representation both involve models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws417">that are deeply canalized and difficult to disengage. But similar points can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37d">be made about the intuitiveness of judgments that state basic principles </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65b">of models whose use is more voluntary<span class="_ _2"></span>. W<span class="_ _2e"></span>ithin the game of chess, it goes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws820">without saying that each piece in play must occupy a single square on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8b8">board. Indeed, within the model of the game, there is no such thing as a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44f">location halfway between spaces. Of course, we are perfectly capable, using </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff42 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">other<span class="ff40 ws40c"> means, of seeing pieces as straddling two spaces. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can refuse to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9a5">interpret them in terms of the chess model at all, or we can wonder which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7e">space an awkwardly positioned piece is “in” for purposes of the game, or we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ee">can interpret it as being in a particular space for purposes of the game. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3b">not interpret it as being in a particular space is to not interpret it as being </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">in play in a game of chess at all. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y147 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d7">This strikes me as slightly different from the manner in which I intui-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b7">tively see that the bishop can move forward one or two spaces on the right </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb83">forward diagonal or can move a third space, capturing the opponent’<span class="_ _2"></span>s pawn. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14d">If I am even a mildly proficient chess player<span class="_ _2"></span>, I simply <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff42 ws0">see<span class="ff40 ls11 ws13d"> these possibilities </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80c">and do not need to do any explicit reasoning to discover them. The ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa95">tion “How did you know that?” would be puzzling, unless perhaps asked by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc6">someone who does not know the movement rules for chess. The movement </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36e">possibilities pop out for me because they are consequences of the implicit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cb">rules (in this case, permissive rules for movement) in my mental model of </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
