<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pff1" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="f1"><div class="pc pcf1 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4f1 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _12e"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x54 h5 y5f0 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y55b ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x2e h5 y6e6 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yafc ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _12f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xff h5 y9c4 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">253 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Models and Intuition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86d">chess, and these permissive rules guide me in recognizing possible moves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafb">within the game. Conversely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, if someone moves the bishop along a row </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84b">or column, or moves it off the board entirely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, this will immediately cause </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb84">the type of cognitive dissonance associated with the counterintuitive. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7e9">Presumably some unconscious mechanism linked to the model detects a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26a">violation of the model’<span class="_ _2"></span>s rules, and the rule violation is flagged with this par-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21e">ticular phenomenology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It is then impossible to keep operating smoothly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb85">within the model; and to make sense of what my opponent has done at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89d">all, I must reframe it outside the chess model: he is trying to annoy me, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20d">perhaps, or is a child who has lost patience with the game and is just hors-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">ing around. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f9">Another type of intuitive process might involve a <span class="ff42 ws0">simulation</span>—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, a sim-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws83b">ulation of what would happen in the game if I tried a particular strategy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws180">This uses the internalized rules of the model to produce a series of represen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b2">tations of board states, or perhaps a representation <span class="ff42 ws0">of</span><span class="ls11 ws63c"> how a strategy is likely </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ce">to unfold. Here the internalized rules guide the dynamics of the simulation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19d">process. Similarly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, when I imagine the rotation of a solid, the rules of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws720">model I employ for spatial reasoning generate a simulation, producing an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb86">intuition about the end result. I may well regard the result with confidence, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">as it is produced by the rules of the model. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y114 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws535">Another type of intuitive process is what is often called “semantic infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb87">ence.” Many things seem intuitively obvious about dogs, even if we have not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53e">thought about them before: dogs are animals, carnivores, quadrupeds, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84a">mortal; dogs have hair<span class="_ _2"></span>, hearts, kidneys, and emotions; dogs are offspring </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws765">of other (pairs of) dogs; and so on. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e would correspondingly find other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83d">claims counterintuitive: dogs are vegetables, vegetarians, bipeds, immortal, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws725">or robots; dogs have scales, gills, or opinions on philosophical issues; dogs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cd">are created on engineers’ workbenches, are made of fire, or have parents </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws339">that are fish; some dogs have masses greater than that of the earth; and so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws165">on. Some of the intuitively obvious claims might have been learned and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88a">stored as facts about dogs, perhaps even appearing in part of a definition or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws263">characterization of dogs you learned; but many of them are things you are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws779">unlikely ever to have thought of before, and yet they are intuitively obvi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ac">ous. Why might this be so? An answer that recommends itself is that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2b">concept </div><div class="t m0 xc2 h5 ya9a ff40 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">DOG<span class="fs2 ls7 wsa2b"> either is itself, or is part of, a kind of richly structured semantic </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yafd ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb88">entity that affords a rich set of inferences that go beyond the judgments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yafe ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">that have previously been formed. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yaff ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa70">Pascal Boyer (2001) suggests that species concepts like </div><div class="t m0 x13 h5 y4a8 ff40 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">DOG<span class="fs2 ls12 ws527"> are formed </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb00 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws261">on the basis of a highest-order concept that is a constitutive part of folk </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb01 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws677">biology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, which he characterizes as the “ontological categor<span class="_ _2f"></span>y” </div><div class="t m0 xd8 h5 y381 ff40 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">ANIMAL<span class="fs2 ls18 ws698">. Boyer </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
