<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pff2" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="f2"><div class="pc pcf2 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x2c h5 y1cc ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xcb h5 y1cd ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5c h5 yb02 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb03 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x52 h5 yb04 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x100 h5 yb05 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb06 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _41"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 yb07 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xa h5 yb08 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x71 h5 yb09 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">254 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>13 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws284">likens concepts to note cards in an internal database and sees ontological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26b">categories as templates for such note cards that specify both category-gen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c">eral assumptions (e.g., animals are mortal and the offspring of same-species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d7">parents) and blank “slots” for other information to be filled in on a species-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3">level basis, such as characteristic physiognomy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, diet, habitat, and so on. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws4a6">When confronted with a new type of animal, we form a new database entry </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws552">on the basis of the </div><div class="t m0 x21 h5 y1cc ff40 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">ANIMAL<span class="fs2 ls12 ws83c"> category<span class="_ _2"></span>. This leads us to assume that the species </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1cd ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa55">will have <span class="ff42 ws0">some</span> characteristic physiognomy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, diet, and so on, which guides us </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ce ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">in a search for what information needs to be acquired to fill in the blanks. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6bb ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a0">As we fill them in, we have an increasingly richly specified set of assump-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6bc ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws709">tions about that species, drawn from the “entry” for the species, the onto-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6bd ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">logical category<span class="_ _2"></span>, and any levels (e.g., </div><div class="t m0 x3c h5 y9dd ff40 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">MAMMAL<span class="fs2 ls11 ws3d">) lying in between. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y140 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76a">The information thus “encoded” need not ever have been a part of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5f9 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57e">an explicit judgment. At some point, I pieced together a set of assump-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5fa ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb89">tions about the internal organs—hearts, kidneys, and so on—I expect to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb0a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c9">typically find in some superordinate class of animals, and these are either </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb0b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b">“written into” my model of dogs or else linked with it in a fashion I can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6a4 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws143">readily exploit. Others may be built into my mental model of dogs through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6a5 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7">experience: I observe what dogs eat, and encode the assumption that they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb0c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32a">eat meat into the model even if I never think a thought with the content </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb0d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws460">“dogs are carnivores.” Unless prompted, I may <span class="ff42 ws0">never</span><span class="ls11 ws1af"> form a judgment on </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb0e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">questions such as whether dogs have kidneys, are carnivores, are mortal, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb0f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws655">are the offspring of other dogs. But once I am prompted, the answer can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb10 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc8">be “read off” the mental model. The judgment is intuitively produced by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb11 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28d">being (somehow) read off what is already present in the model in a non-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb12 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e8">propositional form, and is intuitively recommended <span class="ff42 ws0">because</span><span class="ls11 ws250"> it is a product </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb13 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of what is already present in the model. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb14 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43f">Boyer develops his theory of concepts in <span class="_ _130"></span><span class="ff42">Religion Explained<span class="ff40 ls12 ws3d6"> to suggest </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb15 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28">that concepts of supernatural beings that figure in religious belief are pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb16 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5b">duced by starting with a familiar ontological category (or one of its subor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb17 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ac">dinate concepts) and then violating one of the rules—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, a concept of an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb18 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fa">immortal dog or a dog that can transform into a human being. These con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb19 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8a">cepts are “counterintuitive” because they violate rules of the ontological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb1a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c5">category—say<span class="_ _2"></span>, that animals are mortal, are each members of a single species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb1b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5f">kind, or have a (constant) physiognomy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Boyer suggests that <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff42 ws0">supernatural </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb1c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8b">concepts are special because they (a) violate rules at the <span class="ff42 ws0">category</span><span class="ls18 ws517"> (rather </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb1d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws738">than the species) level and (b) violate <span class="ff42">just one</span><span class="ls11 ws736"> rule. But ideas that violate </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb1e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws244">rules at the species level (e.g., a six-legged dog or a dog without a heart) or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb1f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws625">more than one rule (a six-legged dog without a heart) would also be coun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb20 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">terintuitive for the same general reason. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
