<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pff5" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="f5"><div class="pc pcf5 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff41 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb36 ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x36 h4 yb37 ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4ff ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y504 ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 yb38 ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7c h4 y8af ff40 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 yda ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">257 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Models and Intuition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff41 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">13.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Models, Intuitions, and Expertise </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c4">This model-based account of intuitions can also explain why discussions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72">intuition often include expert judgment as intuitive. One way that expert </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ea">performance differs from novice performance on a task is that novices con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fa">sciously think through problems in an explicit, stepwise fashion, whereas </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb92">experts often report that “the right answer” simply pops out for them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8">quickly and effortlessly<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Dreyfus and Dreyfus (1992), for example, contrast </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">the novice and the expert in the following way: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb36 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8d3">The student automobile driver learns to recognize such interpretation-free features </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb39 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb93">as speed (indicated by his speedometer). Timing of gear shifts is specified in terms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb3a ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb94">of speed. The novice chess player learns a numerical value for each type of piece </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb3b ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb95">regardless of its position, and the rule: “Always exchange if the total value of pieces </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb3c ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws505">captured exceeds the value of pieces lost.” But such rigid rules often fail to work. A </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y477 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb96">loaded car stalls on a hill; a beginner in chess falls for every sacrifice. (Dreyfus and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb37 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">Dreyfus 1992, 114) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4ff ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb97">The expert driver, generally without any attention, not only knows by feel and famil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y500 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws2b8">iarity when an action such as slowing down is required; he knows how to perform </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y501 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws99d">the action without calculating and comparing alternatives. He shifts gears when ap-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y502 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb98">propriate with no awareness of his acts. On the off ramp his foot simply lifts off the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y503 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">accelerator. What must be done, simply is done. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y504 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb99">The expert chess player, classed as an international master or grandmaster, in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4f3 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1fa">most situations experiences a compelling sense of the issue and the best move. Ex-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y505 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f4">cellent chess players can play at the rate of 5–10 seconds a move and even faster </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y86 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb9a">without any serious degradation in performance. At this speed they must depend </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y506 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb9b">almost entirely on intuition and hardly at all on analysis and comparison of alterna-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y507 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb9c">tives. We recently performed an experiment in which an international master, Julio </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y508 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb9d">Kaplan, was required rapidly to add numbers presented to him audibly at the rate of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y509 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb9e">about one number per second, while at the same time playing five-second-a-move </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4f4 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb9f">chess against a slightly weaker, but master level, player. Even with his analytical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ya98 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsba0">mind completely occupied by adding numbers, Kaplan more than held his own </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb3d ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsba1">against the master in a series of games. Deprived of the time necessary to solve prob-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb3e ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">lems or construct plans, Kaplan still produced fluid and strategic play. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 yb38 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsba2">It seems that beginners make judgments using strict rules and features, but that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb3f ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws8d9">with talent and a great deal of involved experience the beginner develops into an ex-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb40 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws929">pert who sees intuitively what to do without applying rules and making judgments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y895 ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws9ae">at all. The intellectualist tradition has given an accurate description of the beginner </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y9e ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsba3">and of the expert facing an unfamiliar situation, but normally an expert does not de-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8ae ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsba4">liberate. He does not reason. He does not even act deliberately. He simply spontane-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8af ff40 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">ously does what has normally worked and, naturally, it normally works. (116–117) </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
