<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pff7" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="f7"><div class="pc pcf7 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4f1 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y5f2 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y494 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _135"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y792 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x14 h5 y9c4 ff40 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _b9"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff41 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">259 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Models and Intuition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws805">in this chapter would suggest that (1) the information was already avail-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16b">able, albeit in nonpropositional form, in the structure of a model; and (2) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws780">there are fast-operating unconscious processes available that can (a) pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd">duce a judgment with that content and (b) if presented with the candi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b8">date judgment, confirm it as implied by the implicit rules of the model. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8d">If beliefs are dispositions that are grounded in stable features of models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f4">plus mechanisms that produce or confirm judgments in a noninferential </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82b">manner based on their content when prompted, we have a characteriza-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb46">tion <span class="_ _35"></span>of beliefs that grounds a form of psychological realism but is not com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e3">mitted to the thesis that dispositional beliefs are sentence-like entities in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">the mind. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4eb">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, we can also explain the fact that imputations of belief are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbaa">also imputations of normative commitments: beliefs of the type I have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f4">described are implied by the implicit rules of their models of origin, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws701">hence one is normatively committed to them when one is using the model. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws122">Of course, different models have different commitments, and those of one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsed">model may conflict with those of another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This would seem to imply that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws515">we have conflicting dispositional beliefs in such cases. But this is actually </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">potentially a point in favor of the account. Numerous psychological stud-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbab">ies have shown that the judgments we are disposed to make are highly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws487">subject to context and priming. So it will not do to simply characterize </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws854">beliefs as dispositions to judgments without further qualification. More-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsac5">over<span class="_ _2"></span>, contexts do not simply magically produce changes in disposition. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7c">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e need some way of connecting different contexts with the different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e8">judgments they evoke. One plausible way of doing this is to suppose that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbac">context and priming activate particular models, and as a result, one is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws641">biased toward producing the judgments that are commitments of <span class="ff42 ws0">those </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws51b">models and not others. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a">Not <span class="ff42 ws0">all</span> dispositions to form judgments work in this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The timid per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws186">son is disposed to judge himself in danger<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In a sixty-degree room, I am in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88e">some sense disposed to judge that it is a bit chilly<span class="_ _2d"></span>. These dispositions are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc">probably not based in mental models. But by the same token, it is not clear </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws364">that we should think of them as involving beliefs, either<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The timid person </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d4">has a low trigger point for judgments of danger<span class="_ _2"></span>, as well as for various types </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53c">of vigilance, but it strikes me as more appropriate to say that he is always on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws298">the lookout for danger and ready to impute it than that he always <span class="ff42 ws0">believes </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws146">himself in danger<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Nonetheless it may be that cases exist in which we would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">attribute beliefs that cannot be explained on the basis of the implicit com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws100">mitments of models, and so the hypothesis should be taken as an explana-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff40 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion for at least <span class="ff42">one class</span><span class="ls11 ws3d"> of belief attributions. </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
