<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf19" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="19"><div class="pc pc19 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x98 h5 ya6 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5d h5 ydb ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8d h5 y158 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x64 h5 y263 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x99 h5 y1c5 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y264 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x50 h5 y265 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5c h5 y15b ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y266 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y267 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9a h5 y268 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9b h5 y269 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">19 <span class="_ _1e"></span>A Standard Philosophical View of Cognitive Architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h9 y5a ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21d">contains language-like mental representations corresponding to each of those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21e">beliefs and desires<span class="ffc">, while another has no such representations, and a third </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21f">has representations corresponding to <span class="ffe ws0">some</span><span class="ls11 ws220"> apt ascriptions of beliefs and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws221">desires but not to others. For example, some of Dennett’<span class="_ _2"></span>s papers include </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws222">examples involving chess-playing computers, and <span class="ffe ws0">some</span><span class="ls12 ws223"> such computers do </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws224">what they do by explicitly representing things such as candidate moves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws225">and their consequences in something like propositional form. Nothing in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws226">Dennett’<span class="_ _2"></span>s account should preclude the notion that <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ffe ws0">sometimes<span class="ffc ws226"> we have men-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws114">tal episodes involving language-like propositional representations, or that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws227">they <span class="ffe ws0">sometimes</span> play a causal role in reasoning. And this is a good thing, as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws223">it seems clear that we at least sometimes do so, when we engage in explicit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">and conscious reasoning. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws228">This actually dovetails nicely with the distinction between belief and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws229">judgment in the previous section. Dennett’<span class="_ _2"></span>s characterization of belief </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22a">ascription helps us make sense of ascriptions of beliefs that cannot plausi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22b">bly be construed as ascriptions of judgments: they are, in effect, ascriptions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22c">of <span class="ffe">normative commitments</span>. Of course, judgments involve normative com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22d">mitments as well, even though we often <span class="ffe ws0">do</span><span class="ls11 wse"> make judgments that are not </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22e">ideally rational. Philosophers have raised good and important questions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22f">about whether epistemology does or should apply to beliefs that are not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd9">judgments and, conversely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, whether the question of which beliefs are also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws230">judgments is really salient to the concerns of epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. (For example, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws231">do questions of warrant really make sense if beliefs are imputed from an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws232">assumption of ideal rationality?) But I will not address those questions here, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">as my principal concern is with cognitive architecture. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y119 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws233">Another important issue should be addressed. There seem to be clear </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">cases of language-like judgments: if nothing else, when someone mentally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws235">endorses a proposition by thinking it to herself <span class="ffe">in a natural language</span>. Like-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws236">wise, clear cases exist in which we can sensibly ascribe to a person a belief </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws237">that P in full knowledge that she has never had any <span class="ffe ws0">thought</span> with the con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws238">tent P<span class="_ _62"></span>. For example, I recall one college friend describing another by saying, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws239">“He believes he is entitled to half of the speaking time in any conversa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23a">tion, regardless of how many people are in the conversation.” It was an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66">apt characterization, but it is unlikely in the extreme that said friend ever </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23b">formed, much less endorsed, a thought with that content. Indeed, had he </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23c">been presented with that description of himself, he would doubtless either </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23d">have disputed it or tried to modify his behavior thereafter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But a wide range </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23e">of cases also fall in between. The phone rings, and I reach to pick it up. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23f">Surely <span class="ffe ws0">some</span> sequence of mental events is going on that we can aptly char-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws240">acterize as “believing the phone is ringing” and “believing that someone is </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
