<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pffb" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="fb"><div class="pc pcfb w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x41 h5 yfd ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xad h5 y26c ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y602 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y294 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y9ca ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b9 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">263 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb8">experimentalist and would surely have felt compelled to recognize the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">problems Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>oung’<span class="_ _2"></span>s experiment presented for his theory had it been devel-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16c">oped within his lifetime. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>et we can well imagine that had he been posed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">with the question of how light would behave if shined through two slits </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15b">in a partition, Newton would confidently have predicted a result based in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a1">his particle theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. What the particle model <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff45 ws0">would<span class="ff43 ls11 ws2d2"> predict if applied to the </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws617">situation is fairly straightforward: particles, moving in straight lines, should </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws359">result in two bands of light corresponding to the two slits. Indeed, between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc6">the evidence from other types of experiments and the fact that the idea that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">light travels in straight lines appeals to common sense (no doubt rooted in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws839">some folk model), Newton might well have assumed that light would <span class="ff45 ls10 ws0">have </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff45 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">to<span class="ff43 ws7c5"> go through the slits in straight lines and produce two bands of light on </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws188">the opposite wall. But this is not what actually happens. Instead the setup </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws445">produces a diffusion pattern of the sort one might expect if light behaved </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">like a wave. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb9">At the least, the experiment shows that Newton’<span class="_ _2"></span>s corpuscular model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11c">cannot aptly be applied in cases like the slit experiment. Just what it shows </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a7">beyond this is complicated by the fact that Newton had in fact devised </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbba">experiments of his own whose results seem compatible with a particle </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws249">model but not a wave model. And for this reason, classical optics was beset </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ae">with a puzzle, as some experimental results suggested one model and oth-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50e">ers another<span class="_ _2"></span>, incompatible model. Without a model that made sense of <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff45 ws0">all </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c6">the experiments, no one was really in a good position to claim decisively </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20d">that light is either a wave or a particle phenomenon. There were two mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b9">els, each of which could aptly be applied to predict results in certain types </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws806">of situations but not in others. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, each model produced intuitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37">anticipations of what should happen in each context—indeed, what <span class="ff45 ws0">must </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws621">happen if light behaves as the model characterizes it. Someone presented </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48a">for the first time with experimental results contrary to the intuitive antici-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41d">pations of the model he was using might well be astonished by them (as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws709">many of us are the first time we encounter Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>oung’<span class="_ _2"></span>s experiment) and feel a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d7">need to replicate it for himself. Indeed, even having known of the two-slit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws303">experiment for a long time, I still sometimes find the results counterintui-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tive, in spite of knowing that they are well confirmed. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf">T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o take another scientific example, in fluid dynamics, different models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsbbb">are applied depending on factors such as temperature, friction, viscosity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbbc">compression, and whether flow is laminar or turbulent. The Euler equations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbbd">present a comparatively mathematically simple model that can elegantly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ba">be applied to many problems, and are viewed as useful simplifications of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws601">the Navier-Stokes equations. But as Mark W<span class="_ _2e"></span>ilson writes, “These frictionless </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
