<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pffc" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="fc"><div class="pc pcfc w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x96 h5 y408 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb4d ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb4e ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f3 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 yda ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">264 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>14 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1dd">simplifications display a wide variety of counterintuitive consequences— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbc">viz., airplane wings should experience neither drag nor lift (leading many </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2df">nineteenth century experts to glumly predict the impossibility of heavier </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33">than air flight)” (W<span class="_ _2e"></span>ilson 2006, 186). The Euler equations are apt for predict-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f3">ing many types of fluid motion and capture important invariants. But they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3b">are also idealized, and in cases where the idealizations matter (such as the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3e">lift on an airplane wing), the model cannot aptly be applied, at least with-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws602">out being supplemented by additional models, in this case Ludwig Prandtl’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa70">boundary layer<span class="_ _2"></span>. Applying the model inaptly can lead to false predictions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39e">such as the impossibility of heavier-than-air flight. Before Prandtl’<span class="_ _2"></span>s discov-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws586">ery of the boundary layer in 1904, we can well imagine that fluid dynami-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68">cists, applying the models they had, might confidently conclude that air </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws313">flight was impossible, <span class="ff45">because that conclusion was implied by the models they </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff45 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws374">had to work with<span class="ff43">. Of course, one can also apply a model inaptly even if one </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">already has the wherewithal to know that it is not aptly applied there. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws303">If we assume that (1) models can give rise to intuitions about what will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13b">or even must be the case, (2) models are idealized in ways that render them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws4e">apt only under certain conditions, and (3) we do not always know where a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">model is aptly applied and may even be unaware that there are restrictions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a5">on its apt application, then we should expect that there would be cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws879">illusions that arise when a model is applied inaptly but we are unaware of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws263">the inaptness. And such unawareness can arise in several ways: as a simple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws838">mistake (we know the conditions for apt application but forget that a par-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">ticular case lies outside them), out of ignorance that a particular case is of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11b">a type that lies outside the conditions, or out of a deeper naïveté about the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3a">idealized character of models in general or about the particular model we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">are using. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50c">Discussions of “cognitive illusions” in psychology are principally con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsbbe">cerned with inapt applications of models. Consider Deborah Kelemen’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65a">notion of “promiscuous teleology<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” T<span class="_ _2"></span>eleological thinking is a common fea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55d">ture of maturationally normal human minds. It is also found in very young </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4e">children, perhaps predating causal explanation. While scientifically tutored </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws135">adults tend to reserve teleological explanations for artifacts and (perhaps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57c">with some qualms and hedging) for organisms, Kelemen’<span class="_ _2"></span>s research points </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbbf">to a developmental pattern in which children at first apply teleological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">models much more broadly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and in preference to causal models. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f3 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc0">Despite similarities between teleological-functional intuitions in young children and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f4 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc1">adults, young Western-educated children reason in teleological-functional terms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f5 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws180">about a broader variety of phenomena than do Western-educated adults. In addition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7f6 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc2">to biological parts and artifacts, they view non-biological natural kinds and their </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
