<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pffd" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="fd"><div class="pc pcfd w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x5 h4 y233 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb4f ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb50 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h4 y7b3 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb51 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb52 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 y413 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">265 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y414 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsada">properties as existing “for” purposes—a finding that has implications for proposals </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y415 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws2e3">that teleological reasoning in young children is selective and is the earliest form of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb53 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">thought that is specifically biological. (Kelemen 1999, 461) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb4f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws618">Frank Keil (1992) had proposed that humans have an innate system for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb54 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4d">teleological explanations linked to biological thinking. Kelemen’<span class="_ _2"></span>s evidence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb55 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88c">that young children show a bias toward applying teleological reasoning to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb56 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws874">things they understand to be nonliving seems to belie this hypothesis, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb57 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35f">so Kelemen hypothesizes that a system for teleological reasoning may be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb58 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsacc">developed on the basis of an earlier-appearing system for understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb59 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">intentional agents. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb50 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc3">Experiences that suggest objects exist in the world to fulfill the purposes of agents </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y91d ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc4">might subsequently contribute to the tendency to over-generate purpose-based te-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y91e ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc5">leological explanations when faced with explanatory gaps. In other words, later on, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y91f ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc6">in the absence of other explanations, children might draw on their privileged knowl-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7ae ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc7">edge of intentions and artifacts to conclude that, like artifacts, natural objects exist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7b3 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws3b4">in the world because some agent put them there for a purpose. (Kelemen 1999, 466) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c7">If we assume, with Kelemen, that the application of a teleological model to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse9">things other than organisms and artifacts is inapt, promiscuous teleology is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15f">a case of a bias to overgeneralize the applicability of a model in inapt ways, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb5c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39f">and subsequent learning about science that is ubiquitous in W<span class="_ _2d"></span>estern edu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb5d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29d">cation narrows the range of cases in which teleological framing is applied. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb5e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws190">This range narrowing may well be a by-product of particular types of educa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb5f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e8">tion and enculturation, without which we should expect to find animistic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb60 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26e">tendencies in adult populations. This seems to be the view taken by Guth-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb61 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws177">rie (2002), who additionally ascribes “animistic” thinking to nonhuman </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb62 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd">animals and describes it as “illusion”: “The attribution of characteristics of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb63 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ba">animacy to the nonliving and to plants appears widespread among com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb64 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b">plex organisms. Because illusion is an inevitable concomitant of percep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb65 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion, such attribution may be universal” (53). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb66 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws837">A second example: In chapter 13, I mentioned research on heuristics and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb67 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws610">biases pioneered by Kahneman and Tversky (1973). Research in this tradi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb68 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39a">tion has identified a number of types of cases in which reasoning about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb69 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36e">statistical problems deviates from optimal Bayesian reasoning about prob-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb6a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34e">abilities. Scientists often regard these deviations as errors in reasoning and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb6b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e0">sometimes describe them as “cognitive illusions.” In a critical reply<span class="_ _2d"></span>, Giger-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb6c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">enzer describes Kahneman and Tversky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s program in the following terms: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb52 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc8">Kahneman and Tversky (1973) describe the gist of their view as follows: “In mak-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb6d ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbc9">ing predictions and judgments under uncertainty, people do not appear to follow </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb6e ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbca">the calculus of chance or the statistical theory of prediction. Instead, they rely on </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
