<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pffe" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="fe"><div class="pc pcfe w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x2f h4 y800 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb50 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _64"> </span> <span class="_ _d5"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb6f ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x71 h4 yb70 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb71 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb72 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xec h5 yb73 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">266 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>14 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbcb">a limited number of heuristics which sometimes yield reasonable judgments and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbcc">sometimes lead to severe and systematic errors” (p. 237). They see the study of sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbcd">tematic errors in probabilistic reasoning, also called “cognitive illusions,” as similar </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1f8">to that of visual illusions. “The presence of an error of judgment is demonstrated by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbce">comparing people’s responses either with an established fact (e.g., that the two lines </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws942">are equal in length) or with an accepted rule of arithmetic, logic, or statistics” (Kahn-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbcf">eman &amp; Tversky, 1982, p. 493). Their distinction between “correct” and “erroneous” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y245 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbd0">judgments under uncertainty has been echoed by many social psychologists: “We </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y234 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbd1">follow conventional practice by using the term ‘normative’ to describe the use of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y235 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws32f">rule when there is a consensus among formal scientists that the rule is appropriate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y800 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">for the particular problem” (Nisbett &amp; Ross, 1980, p. 13). (Gigerenzer 1991, 2) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb50 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46b">The word <span class="ff45 ws0">illusion</span> is used here in a sense suggesting an <span class="ff45 ws0">error</span><span class="ls11 ws3da">, either in the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb74 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2">outcome of the judgment or in the choice of a heuristic unsuitable to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb75 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa81">problem because it differs from a statistical norm. This is readily translated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb76 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws54e">into the framework we have been developing, as Kahneman and Tversky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb77 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">explanations of the errors in fact invoke mental models: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb6f ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbd2">Many adults do not have generally valid intuitions corresponding to the law of large </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb78 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb11">numbers, the role of base rates in Bayesian inference, or the principle of regressive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb79 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbd3">prediction. But it is simply not the case that every problem to which these rules are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb7a ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbd4">relevant will be answered incorrectly, or that the rules cannot appear compelling in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb7b ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbd5">particular contexts. The properties that make formally equivalent problems easy or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb7c ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbd6">hard to solve appear to be related to the mental models, or schemas, that the prob-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb70 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">lems evoke. (Kahneman and Tversky 1982, 129–130) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb71 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws196">In our terminology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the diagnosis of the errors would seem to be that sub-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb7d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25a">jects frame the problem with which they are presented using a model that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb7e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34a">is not apt for that problem, and derive an answer using heuristics associ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb7f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws185">ated with the model. Gigerenzer likewise appeals to “probabilistic mental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb80 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a">models” as a general framework for explaining people’<span class="_ _2"></span>s confidence in their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb81 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">general knowledge (Gigerenzer<span class="_ _2"></span>, Hoffrage, and Kleinbölting 1999). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb82 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws808">What seem to be primarily at issue between Gigerenzer and Kahneman </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb83 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14f">and Tversky are (a) the latter’<span class="_ _2"></span>s use of judgments of professional statisti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb84 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6">cians as a normative standard for determining when the results of heuris-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb85 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc">tic methods are erroneous and (b) the extent to which the heuristics that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb86 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5df">people routinely use are truly inapt, and hence whether the results are truly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb87 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80e">“illusory<span class="_ _2"></span>.” These differences are not relevant to our topic here, as we are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb88 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18">concerned with epistemic rather than alethetic illusions, and so what is at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb89 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0d">issue is not whether the resulting judgments are correct but merely that we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb8a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b3">confidently assume them to be <span class="ff45 ws0">known</span><span class="ls11 ws846">. What is germane is a conception of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb8b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82b">how the mind—or more specifically the application of particular models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb8c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e7">to particular problems—can generate cognitive illusions. Reasoning under </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
