<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pfff" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="ff"><div class="pc pcff w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x5a h5 y26b ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y474 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72e ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">267 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa">uncertainty—with incomplete or unreliable information, or information </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws586">that is itself in the form of probability distributions—is a situation that we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ed">routinely face. Even formal techniques like the use of Bayesian methods do </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws745">not ensure correct predictions, and such techniques require much learn-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86d">ing and (being of recent invention) were unavailable throughout most of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80e">the history of the species. Using Bayesian analytic methods also requires </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b5">possessing a model that incorporates them; but the use of what Gigeren-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws357">zer calls “fast and frugal heuristics” is often necessary and, in many cases, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd7">produces as good or even better results (Gigerenzer<span class="_ _2"></span>, T<span class="_ _2"></span>odd, and the ABC </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws843">Research Group 1999). But it is particularly clear in the case of reasoning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws323">under uncertainty that <span class="ff45 ws0">which</span><span class="ws78b"> models and heuristics are apt for a given case </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws248">will depend crucially on details of the case and the information available to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd">the reasoner<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Using a model that is inapt for framing a problem is likely to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">produce an erroneous assessment. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws612">Of course, this kind of case illustrates that it is often difficult or even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30c">impossible to know for certain whether a given model can aptly be applied </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e1">to a particular situation, at least in part because the limited information </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws646">involved may prevent us from knowing what kind of situation it is. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42d">kind of “error” involved may often not be one where we “should have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f9">known better<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” The inaptness is ultimately determined by external stan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33a">dards, though we can also learn a great deal about different models and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7c">what kinds of situations they are aptly and inaptly applied to. When we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f3">do not actually possess an apt model and can only apply the models we do </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86e">possess, we may be subject to a weak form of forced error<span class="_ _2d"></span>. (It is a weak form </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa81">in that it is forced only by the de facto lack of an apt model, as opposed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a1">the stronger cases in which we are incapable of having an apt model or in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ee">which the use of an inapt model is automatic and cannot be interrupted or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">overridden.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd8">Note, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, that the mere fact that I apply an inapt model that results </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws758">in an error is not itself sufficient to make the result count as an illusion. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e5">There are, after all, different ways of applying models. At one end of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws255">spectrum, I might uncritically assume that the model frames the situation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws825">adequately<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and completely trust the resulting judgment, as in the case of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">the intuitive judgments described in chapter 13. This would indeed seem </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8c">to merit the label “illusion.” At the other end of the spectrum, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws263">might be reflectively uncertain about what would provide an apt model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws1ff">a situation, and try out one or more models tentatively and experimentally<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5e7">I might refrain from endorsing the output of the model in the form of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbc">judgment at all, and if it is not a judgment, it cannot be an illusory judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws217">ment. Or I might endorse the judgment within the scope of a reflective </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
