<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf101" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="101"><div class="pc pc101 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x95 h5 y352 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6f1 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y770 ff44 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb8f ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y796 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 yb90 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1e h4 y8c ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x87 h4 yb91 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb92 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x77 h5 yb93 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xfa h5 yb94 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">269 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws898">drifted into epistemic and alethetic illusion: if you turn an idealized model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws338">into a perfectly universal claim, it may still seem like knowledge if you do </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ca">not recognize that the idealization and the intuitive force are still present, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws477">and as a perfectly universal claim it is <span class="ff45 ws0">erroneous</span><span class="ls11 ws2b8">. Not all dogs do have four </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">legs, and not everything people do is a result of their beliefs and desires. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbdd">While the production of cognitive illusions is in itself always lamen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7a">table, the mechanisms that produce them are arguably grounded in fur-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws298">ther features of our cognitive architecture, which confer distinct cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws765">advantages. I will discuss two of these features: intuitive essentialism and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">the augmentation of understanding through explicit rules or principles. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y207 ff44 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Intuitive Essentialism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5a">A good deal of psychological evidence indicates that, even as young chil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f1">dren, human beings are “intuitive essentialists”—that is, in dividing the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbde">world into kinds, we tacitly assume those kinds to have hidden inner </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8d">natures that are responsible for their characteristic observable properties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws198">and behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In an article reviewing research on essentialist thinking in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">early childhood (including preschool children), Susan Gelman writes: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y796 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws865">Essentialism is the view that certain categories have an underlying reality or true </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y7a3 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbdf">nature that one cannot observe directly but that gives an object its identity, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y797 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws825">is responsible for other similarities that category members share. In the domain of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y687 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe0">biology, an essence would be whatever quality remains unchanging as an organ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y795 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe1">ism grows, reproduces, and undergoes morphological transformations (baby to man; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y482 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws51">caterpillar to butterfly). In the domain of chemistry, an essence would be whatever </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb95 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws994">quality remains unchanging as a substance changes shape, size, or state (from solid </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb96 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">to liquid to gas). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 yb90 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe2">Essentialist accounts have been proposed and discussed for thousands of years, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y8c ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe3">extending back at least to Plato’s cave allegory in <span class="ff45">The Republic</span><span class="ws14b">. Numerous fields, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb97 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe4">including biology, philosophy, linguistics, literary criticism, and psychology, stake </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y966 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws7b1">claims about essentialism. Here we are concerned with essentialism as a psychologi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y53f ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws3c8">cal claim. Although there are serious problems with essentialism as a metaphysical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb98 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws859">doctrine, recent psychological studies converge to suggest that essentialism is a rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb99 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe5">soning heuristic that is readily available to both children and adults. This article </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb9a ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe6">reviews such evidence, and discusses the implications for human concepts. (Gelman </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yb91 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2004, 404) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb92 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb58">Psychological essentialism is arguably a deep principle of how children </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb9b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws130">think and learn about the world. It is not simply that children impute <span class="ff45 ws0">par-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb9c ff45 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ticular<span class="ff43 ws815"> features to kinds of things—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, to species—as essential properties; </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb9d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws804">rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, they <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff45 ws0">expect<span class="ff43 ws804"> kinds (or at least some types of kinds) to have essences, </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb9e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">even if they do not know what those essences might be. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
