<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf102" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="102"><div class="pc pc102 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x87 h4 y245 ff43 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb9f ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _13b"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yba0 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc7 h5 yba1 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x82 h5 yba2 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa1 h5 yba3 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8b h5 yba4 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x13 h5 yba5 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yba6 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">270 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>14 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe7">Medin and Ortony (1989) suggest that essentialism is a “placeholder” notion: one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe8">can believe that a category possesses an essence without knowing what the essence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbe9">is. For example, a child might believe that there exist deep, non-visible differences </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbea">between males and females, but have no idea just what those differences are. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbeb">essence placeholder would imply that categories permit rich inductive inferences, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1a6">capture underlying structure (in the form of causal and other non-obvious proper-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws6c0">ties), have innate potential, and have sharp and immutable boundaries. (Gelman </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y245 ff43 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2004, 404) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb9f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66f">Essentialism is an <span class="ff45 ws0">implicit</span> feature of how children think about the world. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yba7 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbec">(The question of how psychological essentialism is affected by further </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yba8 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ec">learning into adulthood is a topic of greater debate, though it seems clear </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yba9 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws355">enough that essentialist biases continue to operate in some fashion.) But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybaa ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbed">it is also expressed in generalizations: “lions are carnivores,” “women </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybab ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52d">are nurturers,” “Germans are strict.” The surface form of the generaliza-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybac ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbee">tion admits many fine-grained interpretations; but when it expresses an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybad ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbef">essentialist assumption, it imputes a trait as something internal to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybae ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf0">nature of the kind. As the examples show<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the “kinds” to which such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybaf ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdd">thinking might be applied are not necessarily restricted to scientific kinds </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb0 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">like species. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ybb1 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f7">Essentialist generalizations can be produced as a result of experience but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb2 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws890">can also be transmitted socially through language. Essentialist thinking is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb3 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3">a powerful inductive tool. Making essentialist generalizations explicit can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb4 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45b">also be a powerful tool (see the next section) and also makes them available </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb5 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws662">for social transmission. Of course, essentialist thinking about subcategories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb6 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws223">of human beings is notoriously present in social bias and prejudice, and so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb7 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21b">the benefits of a powerful tool for learning and categorization clearly come </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb8 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97a">with serious cost and risk. This, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, helps to illustrate some of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb9 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws148">types of errors to which essentialist thinking is prone. Even if some kinds </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybba ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws473">of things <span class="ff45 ws0">are</span> aptly thought about in some contexts as having essences (or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbb ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws552">essential properties), we may think about <span class="ff45 ws0">other</span><span class="ls11 ws4b6"> kinds of things in essential-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbc ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44d">ist terms <span class="ff45 ws0">inaptly</span>. And even if there are some kinds that can aptly be imputed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbd ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c8">essential properties, we may mistake the <span class="ff45 ws0">wrong</span><span class="ls11 ws862"> properties as essential or </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbe ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4de">mistake whatever “essentialness” amounts to for <span class="ff45 ws0">universality</span><span class="ls11 ws4ab">. If species have </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbf ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c1">essences, being quadrapedal may be essential to dogs, but not all dogs have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc0 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4">four legs. Female mammals may possess biological features that make them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc1 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f">more likely to manifest nurturing traits, but the expression of these traits </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc2 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12a">depends on other variables, and there are men and women at both ends of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc3 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">the range of nurturing behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ybc4 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws807">V<span class="_ _2"></span>arious kinds of essentialism have, of course, played significant roles </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc5 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf1">in the history of philosophy<span class="_ _2"></span>. Aristotelian philosophy may be the most </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
