<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf104" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="104"><div class="pc pc104 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y13f ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x31 h5 y5f9 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x79 h5 ybeb ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ybec ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4f h5 y7c7 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ybed ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">272 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>14 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ca">not be a way of exactly spelling out where the generalization is and is not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">aptly applied. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3a">Again, in one way all of this is both intelligible and useful from a psy-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws4e">chological standpoint. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o the extent that we are ever to learn when a prin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d9">ciple is and is not aptly applied, we first have to learn the principle and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws357">try to apply it. And this requires that learning the principle be dissociable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws882">from mastering the conditions for its aptness. This opens the gates to inapt </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31b">application to particular cases, as discussed in the previous section. But the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e1">unqualified form of the principle also allows it to be interpreted as a per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">fectly universal and unidealized claim. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws173">Mistaking a generalization for a universal claim can, of course, result in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4f">epistemic illusion: the intuitive force of the general claim may still be pres-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e2">ent, but it has been covertly turned into a different sort of claim. (Whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf2">it is also an <span class="ff45 ws0">alethetic</span> illusion depends on the nonpsychological facts of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ee">whether the content of the judgment is true.) That “Xs are Ys” is a useful </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18">rule of thumb in some unspecified range of contexts by no means ensures </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws482">the truth of “<span class="ff45 ws0">All</span><span class="ls11 ws8bc"> Xs are Ys.” And when we (perhaps unwittingly) transform </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws496">a useful generalization grounded in a model that is often apt into a univer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws671">sal claim, we may still feel the intuitive force of the generalization, not real-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws426">izing that it has illicitly been transferred to an unsubstantiated universal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">claim, and hence fall prey to a cognitive illusion. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad2">But the mind’<span class="_ _2"></span>s tendency to elide from general to universal claims can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3df">also be the beginning of a fruitful kind of dialectical process of inductive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws298">testing. “Xs are Ys” is probably too vague to test at all. “All Xs are Ys” can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws303">be tested, often by first being <span class="ff45 ws0">con</span>tested, and most claims of this form turn </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws440">out to be false. But the dissonance between the intuitive appeal of the gen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11f">eral claim and the proven falsity of the universal claim drives the mind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws459">to look for a more adequate exact formulation. This is, in fact, one of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">predominant methods we see at work in philosophical discussion. A thesis </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws173">may first be proposed on the basis of seeming to be an apt way of viewing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80">things based on a small set of paradigm examples. The thesis is proposed as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf9">a universal claim (often in the form of putatively necessary and sufficient </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">conditions), and either the theorist herself or other philosophers then test </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d3">it by considering possible counterexamples. Often the account is modified </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws485">to accommodate counterexamples and subjected to a further round of criti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">cism, and so on. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb35">From this perspective, I think we can see some of the familiar weak-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f7">nesses and strengths of this approach to philosophy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. On the one hand, it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa0e">hardly a new observation that many philosophical theories were motivated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28d">by what in retrospect might seem a woefully small set of paradigm cases. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
