<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf105" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="105"><div class="pc pc105 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x16 h5 ya6 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _13f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xd5 h5 y1c3 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x57 h5 y264 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xeb h5 y6e3 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd3 h5 y790 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ybee ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x64 h5 ybef ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x34 h5 ybf0 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xdc h5 y9c4 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">273 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a8">From the outside, it might seem puzzling how anyone could seriously have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws801">believed theories such as that <span class="ff45 ws0">all</span> thoughts are images or that <span class="ff45 ws0">everything</span> peo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws694">ple do is done on the basis of rational calculation involving their beliefs and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9b1">desires. The corresponding general claims, like “thoughts are images” or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws303">“people decide what to do on the basis of their beliefs and desires,” might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6dd">be plausible and useful within some more restricted scope and might be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws985">tied to models that are indeed apt for understanding <span class="ff45 ws0">something.</span><span class="ls18 wsbf3"> But the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c7">universal claims do not have good inductive support, and one would be led </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws588">to very different conclusions if one started from different paradigm cases. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18f">That anyone could have thought the universal claims plausible suggests </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws610">that they were victims of a cognitive illusion that involved losing sight of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad">the restricted scope of the general claim. This type of interpretation is often </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws228">offered as a <span class="ff45 ws0">criticism</span> of a theorist and his reasoning process. But it only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws336">really works as a criticism if we assume that the process of finding good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64e">inductive generalizations works by first assembling all the evidence and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fd">then drawing a conclusion from it. Viewed as a <span class="_ _34"></span><span class="ff45 ws0">dialectical<span class="ff43 ls11 ws88d"> process, often </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf4">involving multiple participants playing the roles of defender and critic, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8bd">the process of proposing a universal claim based on a restricted range of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws719">cases and then subjecting it to critique by counterexamples can in principle </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ca">work quite well, even if in other cases it ends up being unproductive, fal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws355">sifying the universal claim but offering nothing constructive in its place. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws275">What is perhaps more abidingly peculiar from an epistemic standpoint is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws416">that professional philosophers who adopt the role of advocating a particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7d">lar theory in such dialectic often seem to also feel committed to the theory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws917">being <span class="ff45 ws0">true</span>, even when they are aware of poignant counterexamples. I sus-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf5">pect that the roots of the commitment are really to be found in a com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws117">mitment to an underlying model being apt for understanding a particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">range of cases. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws306">One important question for further empirical investigation is whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf6">the formulation of generalizations within the resources of ordinary language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws795">facilitates the production of illusions. It is not that we <span class="ff45 ws0">cannot</span><span class="ls11 ws1c6"> devise careful </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws810">uses of language that include explicit hedges indicating the idealization of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws318">the models underlying generalizations or employ more formal logical tools. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ca">Indeed, whole schools of philosophy have been devoted to “correcting” the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws483">vagueness and ambiguity of ordinary language. The interesting question, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69a">rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, is whether some of the structures of ordinary language, like “Xs are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77e">Ys,” <span class="ff45">lose information</span> that was present in purely model-based understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws361">before it was transmuted into language—for example, whether we are more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws962">prone to forgetting the idealization conditions of a model we are reasoning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">with when we express it in language in the form of a general claim. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
