<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf107" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="107"><div class="pc pc107 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2d1 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2d4 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _cb"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xa4 h5 y5fc ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">275 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws48d">knowledge with what could be experienced and confirmed through sensory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">experience.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37f">One basic difference between my cognitive pluralism and Kant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s philos-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws836">ophy is that my theory locates much of understanding as arising from ide-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf9">alized domain-specific models rather than from sentence-sized judgments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f0">and arguments composed of such judgments. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e have seen that there are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b0">ways that the idealization of models can result in a kind of epistemic dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws206">unity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. I have speculated that sometimes there are incompatibilities between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a0">apt models that are principled and enduring, but I have also endorsed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws616">attempts to reconcile incompatibilities as a regulative principle. And it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7da">clear that attending to problems that are signaled by having incompatible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws359">ways of understanding things often produces intellectual advances, such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ab">corrections to models we have previously used, discoveries of better mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws948">els (sometimes ones that cover the domains of two preexisting models), </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b9">and second-order ways of conceiving the relationships between models, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29a">such as seeing one as a limiting case of another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Sorting out such problems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbfa">differs from sorting out inconsistencies between propositions or trying to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29c">unify propositions into a more comprehensive system without attending </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13d">to models. By the same token, the ways we try to unify models can lead to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf2">types of illusion that are not apparent if we attend only to propositions and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">arguments. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c4">The most basic such illusion is perhaps to assume that all the things that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">we justifiably believe on the basis of apt models should be consistent with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws495">one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Consistency is, after all, a norm of logic. And it is an extremely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a0">powerful norm, as it gives rise to a strong intuitive assumption that two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws610">inconsistent claims cannot both be true. But we now have several reasons </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">to look past this compelling intuitive assumption. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb37">T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o begin with, the norm of consistency is a norm <span class="_ _34"></span><span class="ff45 ws0">for<span class="ff43 ls11 ws7bb"> sentence-sized </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c0">units: propositions, judgments, beliefs, claims, assertions, sentences. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws677">introduction of models as a different type of cognitive unit—one that is in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbfb">some ways <span class="ff45">prior to</span> sentence-sized units, as it is models that define a space of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61f">possible propositional representations—complicates matters. What “consis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws776">tency” means when comparing two models is different from what it means </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws752">in comparing two propositions. Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometries </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f2">are inconsistent with each other<span class="_ _2"></span>, but this does not mean that at least one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws488">of them is false. Indeed, it makes no sense to speak of a pure mathematical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e3">system being “false,” or of a pure mathematical claim being either true-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbfc">full-stop or false-full-stop. Mathematical systems simply are the systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cd">they are, and the truth of a pure mathematical claim like the Pythagorean </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1">theorem is truth-in-a-system. When models are applied to the empirical </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
