<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf108" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="108"><div class="pc pc108 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x37 h5 y1c3 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y263 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y55b ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x16 h5 y267 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y268 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _b3"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">276 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>14 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4df">world, there can be formal inconsistencies between their rules and repre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbfd">sentational systems, but this need not constrain us to endorse contradic-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsb09">tory propositions, for reasons explored in chapter 12. Some unificatory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82b">projects—such as those involving intertheoretic reduction—have as their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ae">aim relations between models. But even to the extent that we endorse the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21e">principle of noncontradiction for propositions, this gives us no reason to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">expect that all apt <span class="ff45">models</span><span class="ls11 ws3d"> should be formally consistent. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d4">Of course, the discussion of disunity also included the observation that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bc">while there are clear cases in which a proper understanding of how par-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws95f">ticular models are idealized prevents their committing us to contradictory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws985">beliefs (e.g., in pure mathematical models and cases like quantum com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbfe">plementarity), there are probably many more cases where models frame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws244">matters in alternative ways that seem to be contradictory without the pos-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46b">sibility of any decisive experimental technique for deciding when each is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4af">aptly applied. Nonetheless there can be other ways in which they differ </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43">with respect to aptness. For example, consequentialist, deontological, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32">virtue-theoretic models may differ in their assessments of goodness in vari-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ae">ous cases, with no decisive way to arbitrate between them, and yet still </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16b">differ with respect to what insights they afford that might prove useful in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c0">moral deliberation and assessment. The norm of consistency indeed gives </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws785">us reason for dialectical engagement in such cases, but it is not the <span class="ff45 ws0">only </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc9">norm to which we are beholden. Even if our concern is only with theoreti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79c">cal understanding, there may be other regulative principles as well—such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48e">as having good ways of understanding as many things as possible—which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd">may pull in opposite directions, and the extent to which any regulative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68f">principle can be fulfilled completely by a given mind depends on empirical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c3">facts about that mind’<span class="_ _2"></span>s cognitive architecture. It is an epistemic illusion to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws564">assume that a given mind <span class="ff45 ws0">must</span> be capable of fulfilling a regulative prin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ciple, much less fulfilling all of them simultaneously<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws568">Second, we have various <span class="ff45 ws0">strategies</span><span class="ls11 ws124"> for unifying models into a form that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbff">is more comprehensive. A number of these strategies have been developed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc00">in mathematics and the sciences. One family is called “reductionist” and, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70a">in its purest form, involves the axiomatic reconstruction of one domain of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">understanding in terms of another (e.g., the derivation of arithmetic from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws601">set theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, or the attempts to show that the special sciences can be derived </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b8">from physics). A second is to unify two apparently disparate domains as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws231">special cases of something more general (the most historically important </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d7">example is perhaps Newton’<span class="_ _2"></span>s unification of planetary orbits and terrestrial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89d">ballistics in a single theory of universal gravitation). A third and distinct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84c">strategy is to show that one model is a limiting case of another (a paradigm </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
