<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf109" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="109"><div class="pc pc109 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xdd h5 y5c ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf6 h5 yc07 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5 h5 yc08 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc09 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x87 h5 yc0a ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4d h5 yc0b ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _c0"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc0c ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">277 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e4">example would be the claim that the classical universe is a limiting case of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws350">the relativistic universe).</div><div class="t m0 xe h8 yc0d ff43 fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 xdd h5 y5c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws350"> A fourth, characteristic of Newton’<span class="_ _2"></span>s approach to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafd">mechanics, is to attempt to view different models as expressing indepen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc0e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws373">dent <span class="ff45 ws0">factors</span> that can be recombined (in Newtonian mechanics, through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc0f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws843">vector algebra) to get a global picture. There is also a family of strategies, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc10 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws421">which I hesitate to call “unifying,” that we might label “contextual” or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc11 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsed">“relativistic.” Their basic approach is to say that different models allow us </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc12 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f6">to say true things, but in a fashion hedged by <span class="ff45 ws0">contexts</span><span class="ls11 ws602">. I pick these examples </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc13 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws341">out because they are familiar and important, but I do not wish to suggest </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc14 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb">that this list is exhaustive. Indeed, I regard the list of unifying strategies </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc15 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws610">as open-ended, as there may be unifying strategies that have not yet been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc16 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">recognized. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc17 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d">Each of these strategies has arguably been successfully applied to resolve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc18 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ec">particular problem cases. What is striking from the standpoint of intellec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc19 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws431">tual history<span class="_ _2"></span>, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, is the confidence with which a particular strategy </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc1a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws648">has often been endorsed, along with a picture of how things would look </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc1b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws388">if it <span class="ff45 ws0">could</span> successfully be applied, well in advance of a serious attempt to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc1c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws894">apply it. This is, to my mind, particularly striking in the case of reductionist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc1d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad2">strategies. Pre-Socratic philosophers seem to have been remarkably confi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc1e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbe">dent that everything <span class="_ _34"></span><span class="ff45 ws0">must<span class="ff43 wsbe"> be composed of </span>one<span class="ff43 ls11 ws6f9"> of the “prime elements” </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc1f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc01">of earth, air<span class="_ _2"></span>, fire, water<span class="_ _2e"></span>, or aether<span class="_ _2"></span>, though they differed over which one. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc20 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1f">Pythagoreans shared a similar confidence that everything was ultimately </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc21 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5cf">numbers. Early modern materialists and some of the twentieth-century log-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc22 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30">ical empiricists had a similar confidence that the special sciences could be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc23 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f9">reduced to basic physics, and early proponents who had little scientific evi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc24 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws202">dence to go on (like Hobbes) were no less confident than those who came </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc25 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws366">after<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Indeed, the intuitive appeal of reductionism seems to endure even in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc26 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf">the face of strong arguments from philosophers of science that true inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc27 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc02">theoretic reductions are rare (Horst 2007). Hobbes and Descartes also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc28 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fb">seemed to have had a further ambition of seeing physical properties as ulti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc29 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25f">mately geometric in nature. And many contemporary theoretical physicists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc2a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72f">seem to regard the prospect of a unified field theory as something that must </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc2b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">be true. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc2c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">Chapter 12 explored some reasons why such confidence might in fact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc2d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc03">be ill justified. But we might also ask the equally interesting question: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc2e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72">Why would such views recommend themselves to the mind as intuitively </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc2f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws363">appealing, perhaps even as things that must be true? I think that a plausible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc30 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a3">answer is a variant on Kant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s general story about the drive toward unifica-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc31 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa6c">tion and its propensity to foster cognitive illusion. The mind has a drive to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc32 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws348">unify not only its beliefs but the models it uses. There are various strategies </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
