<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf10e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="10e"><div class="pc pc10e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbf h5 y7c6 ff43 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff44 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">282 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>14 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">and knowable through synthetic a priori reasoning, because the mind is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">constrained to apply the categories to all possible objects of experience. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42">Cognitive pluralism, of course, is also a cognitivist philosophy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Discus-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws836">sion of its possible metaphysical implications will have to wait for another </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc1f">book, but clearly there are important questions to be answered about matters </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31">such as its relationship to realism and idealism. I shall confine myself here </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa74">to a brief discussion of the question of projective illusion. Because aptness </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb55">is ultimately a pragmatic matter<span class="_ _2"></span>, the fact that object-oriented cognition and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc20">schemas for causation are features of our cognitive architecture that provide </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fd">basic ways of understanding the world does not debar them from counting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a5">as apt. Indeed, to the extent that models that allow us to constitute a world </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a1">of objects standing in causal relations provide good epistemic and practical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws418">traction upon the world, this renders them apt. But to this we should add </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc0">two important caveats. First, contemporary science, unlike the science of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws196">Kant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s day<span class="_ _2d"></span>, includes models that posit phenomena that resist characteriza-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84b">tion as classical objects. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o the extent that the mind strives to force these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd2">into the mold of notions of objects or causation, this may well be a process </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws108">that can produce cognitive illusions. Second, when we move beyond the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14">application of models in ordinary cognition and empirically constrained </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e0">science and attempt to think about substance and causation as fundamen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8af">tal metaphysical categories, we may well move beyond the realms in which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws180">they are aptly applied. In particular<span class="_ _2"></span>, if we adopt the naive realist stance that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2be">treats such categories as mind-independent ways the world divides itself up, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff43 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c">we indeed fall into something akin to projective illusion. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
