<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf110" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="110"><div class="pc pc110 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y556 ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y559 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y601 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y337 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc6a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _69"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls1b"> <span class="_ _29"></span><span class="ls0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _148"> </span> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">284 <span class="_ _cf"></span>Chapter <span class="_ _144"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9a">The chapter is divided into two parts. The first considers the implica-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab6">tions of a model-based view of understanding for epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws311">assumption that knowledge is warranted true belief. What is the relation-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6af">ship between models and beliefs? What role do models play in the war-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61b">rant of beliefs and hence their status as knowledge? Are models themselves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa37">things that can be warranted? The second examines the implications of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws152">cognitive pluralism for three influential theories of knowledge: foundation-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">alism, coherentism, and reliabilism. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y205 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">15.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">What Are Beliefs? </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b3 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws170">Back in chapter 2, I made a terminological decision to speak of occurrent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b4 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2de">states involving endorsement of propositional content as <span class="ff47 ws0">judgments</span><span class="ls18 ws3df">. Such </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f7">states have sometimes been called “occurrent beliefs” as well, a terminol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws237">ogy generally used in contradistinction to “dispositional beliefs.” I further </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws777">decided to use the term ‘belief’ broadly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, to include both judgments and dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc26">positional beliefs, whatever the latter might turn out to be. In subsequent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91f">discussions of intuition and cognitive illusion, I concentrated principally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31a">on the notion of judgment rather than that of belief, because those chap-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsabf">ters dealt with the production of occurrent states from models. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws2c6">and will discuss the question of how judgments are warranted; however<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c5">epistemologists do not generally confine their discussions of knowledge to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63c">occurrent states but employ a notion of belief that encompasses both occur-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">rent and dispositional beliefs. In this chapter we will thus need to discuss </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws889">the relationship in which models stand to beliefs as well as to judgments. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws477">I touched on this topic in chapter 13, in conjunction with a discussion of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws271">intuition. Here I take it up again in the context of accounts of beliefs and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">other intentional states. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y170 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws692">As a first step, I would like to explore how mental models might shed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws239">further light on the psychological underpinnings of what we describe as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc27">beliefs. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o begin, let us reconsider several ways of understanding what we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">are doing when we ascribe beliefs. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y566 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">1. <span class="_ _2d"></span><span class="ff47 ws11f">Intentional realism<span class="ff46">: Belief ascriptions in general involve attributions of </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y567 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws861">mental representations. A statement of the form “S believes P” can be </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y568 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4c">true only if S has a mental representation with the content P<span class="_ _62"></span>. In this </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y569 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc28">account, all beliefs are occurrent states like judgments, though they </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y56a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws425">may not be conscious states and might be represented in ways (e.g., in </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5bf ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc1d">cognitively impenetrable subsystems) that cannot be brought to con-</div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5c0 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc29">scious awareness. Such an assumption seems necessary for cases in </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
