<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf112" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="112"><div class="pc pc112 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y352 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y407 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _69"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls1b"> <span class="_ _29"></span><span class="ls0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _d6"> </span> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x95 h5 y3ab ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc6c ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc6d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6fa ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf8 h5 yc6e ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">286 <span class="_ _cf"></span>Chapter <span class="_ _144"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4f">P as well. Again, this is a framework for understanding belief attribution </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83c">(in this case, as holding accountable and scorekeeping [Brandom 1998]) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws839">without a psychological story about the basis for the commitments and </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">inference rules. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">5. <span class="_ _2d"></span><span class="ff47 ws17b">Sellars’<span class="_ _2"></span>s myth of Jones<span class="ff46">: In saying “S believes P” we are hypothesizing some </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68c">kind of inner state that we conceptualize by analogy with S making an </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc2d">assertion that P<span class="_ _62"></span>. The supposition that we conceive of inner states by </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc2e">analogy with assertions involves a kind of agnosticism about the real </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">psychological nature of the states attributed. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6fe ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws186">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e thus have one proposal (intentional realism) that makes a claim about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b1 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws672">the psychological nature of beliefs (but one that is implausible for many </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b2 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse5">perfectly ordinary belief attributions) and a range of proposals that make </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y327 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws301">claims about what we are doing in attributing beliefs, and set constraints </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y328 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc2f">on a psychologically realistic account of beliefs without supplying such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y329 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ac">an account. Clearly what we should want here is a psychological proposal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d7">that can account for our dispositions to form judgments, the success of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ca">intentional strategy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the possession of normative commitments, and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e6">analogy between beliefs and assertions. Mental models help provide such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">an account. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y32e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc30">First, if we are disposed to judge—quickly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, automatically<span class="_ _2"></span>, and confi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d4">dently—that dogs have kidneys and 117 + 8 = 125, on what basis are we so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y330 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws12c">disposed? Our discussion of intuitive judgments suggests that, at least in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y331 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsa9c">wide variety of such cases, the disposition is rooted in the possession of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y332 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78c">mental model containing resources that can generate the judgment with-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y333 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws743">out explicit reasoning. I have never before considered whether dogs have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y334 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87c">kidneys; but to do so, all I need to do is consult some kind of inner model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y335 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45">typical animal physiology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and the judgment pops out. I have never added </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y287 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bf">these two numbers before (or if I have, the result is forgotten), but I have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y288 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2a">mastered a model for adding integers, and when I plug these particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y289 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc1e">addends into it, the answer pops out. (Note that if we adjusted the example </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws230">so that the addends exceeded performance limits—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, twenty-digit num-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10f">bers—your answer to the “do you believe …” question might well be “I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc31">don’t know<span class="_ _2d"></span>,” at least until you worked the problem out with pencil and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">paper or a calculator<span class="_ _2d"></span>.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y28e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws488">It is also natural to speak of facts such as that dogs have kidneys as <span class="ff47 ws0">com-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28f ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">mitments<span class="ff46 ws77a"> of models if they are somehow contained in, or implied by<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y290 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws755">models’ rules, representational systems, or data structures. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o use language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y291 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fd">from AI and theoretical cognitive science, if I have a model of animal physi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b3 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws478">ology that contains a node for kidneys linked to the root node as a default </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
