<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf113" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="113"><div class="pc pc113 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xac h5 y352 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd6 h5 y407 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6f2 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y770 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc6f ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x21 h5 y46c ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">287 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws474">feature, or a production rule that generates a representation with the con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69c">tent “… has kidneys” to things to which the model is applied, then by using </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19c">the model and treating it as apt, I am normatively committed to such infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16c">ences, even if I do not actually perform them. If the model <span class="ff47 ws0">is</span><span class="ls12 ws8cd"> apt, there is </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws954">also a second kind of normativity: it is an inference that one <span class="ff47 ws0">should</span><span class="ls16 ws775"> make, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">because the inferential pattern tracks a real pattern. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc32">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e saw in chapter 12, however<span class="_ _2e"></span>, that different models involve differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws706">ent, and sometimes conflicting, commitments. If we are committed to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws558">implications of our models—whether their general commitments or the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4af">implications of their application to particular cases—it would thus seem </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13d">that we would turn out to be committed to conflicting beliefs as well. This </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51f">may initially seem like a problem, but really it is something we should <span class="ff47 ws0">want </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48c">a psychological account of belief to imply or at least accommodate. On the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ac">one hand, a wealth of psychological studies show that our judgments are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc1a">quite sensitive to context and priming. A natural explanation of this is that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws112">different contexts and priming conditions activate different models, gener-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc33">ating one set of judgments rather than another depending on which model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ef">is activated. On the other hand, we often find ourselves inclined, even after </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws23c">much reflection, to endorse two propositions we know to be contradictory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsb3b">when each is intuitively recommended by a model and we are not in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cd">position to see why one model is inapt or otherwise to adjudicate between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d8">them. It is not clear that the fact that we have paradoxical sets of beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d8">should itself be regarded as paradoxical. But if it is, we seem to gain some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3dd">resolution by understanding that the situation is not one of simultaneously </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b9">and assuredly endorsing both P and not-P<span class="_ _62"></span>, but one of feeling the pull of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">conflicting implications of two models to which we are committed. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws297">If the phenomenon we call “believing P” amounts to having a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">that can readily generate a judgment with the content P in an appropriate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ab">evoking context in which the model is treated as apt, and we encode this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f8">in the locution “S believes P<span class="_ _62"></span>,” clearly information is lost in the transla-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e9">tion. Here we see the wisdom behind Dennett’<span class="_ _2"></span>s and Sellars’<span class="_ _2"></span>s cautions. Belief </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws887">ascriptions <span class="ff47">look like</span> reports of assertions, and it is tempting to assume that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">what is reported must, like an assertion, be propositional and episodic. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90b">really it is dispositional and normative. It may be a disposition to produce </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34e">a certain type of episode—a judgment—but its nature must be understood </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e7">in terms of the dynamics of models, and models are not judgments or other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65b">sentence-sized units, and the processes by which they produce judgments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws542">are not logical argument forms operating on sentence-sized units. More-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d6">over<span class="_ _2"></span>, the analogy with assertions may tempt us to suppose that beliefs, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc34">or at least judgments, must take place in a language-like medium. But </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
