<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf114" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="114"><div class="pc pc114 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x36 h5 y352 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x39 h5 y407 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ab ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x2f h5 y408 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y6f0 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc70 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">288 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc33">models have their own resources for representing particular states of affairs. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbdc">Linguistic beings like ourselves can readily transpose many (though not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc35">all) of these into language and language-like thought, but this is some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75">thing <span class="ff47">in addition</span> to a model-based representation. If we assume, on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c9">basis of how we <span class="ff47 ws0">report</span> it, that it must be structurally language-like, we are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws249">likely to be mistaken. Some, but not all, judgments are made or transposed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19d">into language or language-like thought. Some, but not all, beliefs are also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">judgments. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7b">On my view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the intentional strategy is itself typified by a model—one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">for interpreting the behavior of agents. Or perhaps better<span class="_ _2"></span>, the intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b0">strategy may be a feature of any number of more particular models (the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws633">core agency system, folk psychology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and more specialized models erected </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9b1">on the scaffolding these provide) for interpreting agents. It may well be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e5">that it does so, as Sellars suggests, by characterizing agents <span class="ff47">as though</span><span class="ls16 wsc36"> their </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d6">behavior were driven by language-like inner states. Like any model, this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws744">sort of model is idealized and answers to a number of pragmatic factors </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbdd">for its aptness. It is particularly apt in cases in which there are psycho-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc37">logical processes involving language-like representations—including, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ff">not limited to, thinking and reasoning in a natural language. It distorts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53d">its target more when there are model-based judgments that are not trans-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64d">posed into language or language-like thinking, but it can still latch onto </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ab">psychologically real episodes even if it (mistakenly) treats them as though </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws300">they were in a language-like medium. It also provides ways of talking about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77b">dispositions and normative commitments based in model-based thinking, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad2">though it does so in a fashion that provides no insight into their format </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws873">or dynamics. The real patterns it tracks are emergent from an underlying </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a5">model-based dynamics. In my view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it is features of these dynamics that are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">its real target—a form of psychological realism that is not a realism <span class="ff47 ws0">about </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">sentence-like representations. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa13">But the strategy can also be applied, with varying degrees of success, to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a9">systems that lack the same model-based dynamics. In the limiting case, we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc38">can say things such as “the thermostat believed it was too cool and switched </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b4">on the furnace.” Statements of this kind can allow us to attain some degree </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c3">of predictive success even while greatly distorting the way we represent the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws525">system we are predicting. For Dennett, predictive success would seem to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws125">the only measure of aptness. For me, it is one among several, and I would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63d">insist on a richer analysis of how an intentional strategy model is and is not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">aptly applied to a range of cases instead of a simple prediction-based crite-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws471">rion for what is a “true believer<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” In my view<span class="_ _2"></span>, the intentional strategy aims </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7b">at tracking a particular type of target phenomenon—a form of cognition </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
