<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf115" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="115"><div class="pc pc115 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xd8 h5 y5ed ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y33a ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y33b ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 yafb ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5ef ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _14b"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">289 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84">shared by humans and an indefinite number of nonhuman species. It can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws124">be apt for predicting the behavior of other types of systems, but when we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws121">use it for such purposes, we must remind ourselves that we are in effect tak-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ing a model of one target and using it as a model of another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a7">This approach seems particularly helpful in interpreting ascriptions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b8">beliefs to nonhuman animals. If we suppose that language and language-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbdb">like thinking are uniquely human, and attributions of beliefs ascribe disposi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws827">tions to form language-like occurrent states, it would seem that nonhuman </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24a">animals cannot really have beliefs. On the other hand, ascribing beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15b">to a dog does not seem peculiar in the same ways that ascribing beliefs to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87c">thermostats does. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can make some sense of this, however<span class="_ _2e"></span>, if we recognize </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61c">that many nonhuman species do have some sorts of mental models, even if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f8">they are not able to form models of many of the things we can, and even if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">their models are surely different in their details from ours. Describing their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws440">beliefs in a fashion analogous to reporting human speech involves more of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa95">a distortion of the real psychological content of their mental states, because </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd5">they do not have dispositions to make judgments in linguistic form. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">in ascribing beliefs to them, we are nonetheless referring to inner states of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89f">the same kind that we refer to when we ascribe dispositional beliefs to one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">another: to dispositions grounded in the models they possess. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y210 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">15.2 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Models as Epistemic Units </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">Cashing out the notion of belief in terms of mental models provides a first, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws862">but relatively weak, connection to epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In this section, I argue </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws698">that there are also more robust connections: models are sources of warrant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54b">for beliefs and judgments, models are themselves epistemically evaluable, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">and the fact that models are integral units not reducible to beliefs requires </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">that epistemology accommodate model-sized units. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y88e ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Models as a Source of Warrant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y88f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58e">I have claimed that models are <span class="ff47 ws0">generative</span><span class="ls11 ws439">, in the sense that possessing a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y890 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30d">model endows a person with a space of possible representations that can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6dd ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33a">be framed in terms of that model. Judgments about particular situations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6de ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b5">are formed by applying a model that is used to frame the situation, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y312 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a4">the resulting judgment is drawn from the space of possible representations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6df ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa03">generated by the model. (Of course, we can additionally combine represen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e0 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c0">tations drawn from multiple framing models using the more ecumenical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e1 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc39">representational medium of language, but these ultimately derive much </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e2 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsc3a">of their semantic content from the models employed.) The fact that a </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
