<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf116" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="116"><div class="pc pc116 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y297 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x27 h5 y33c ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x71 h5 yafb ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y5ef ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x61 h5 y9ce ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">290 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws257">judgment is framed within a particular model also connects it to the infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84">ential resources of the model: to constitute something as a chess bishop is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d1">to take it to be something that can move diagonally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, be captured, capture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">other pieces, and so on. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3b">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e now need to explore the epistemological implications of the relation-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb7e">ship between models and judgments. The basic idea that I will develop here </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39c">is a kind of reliabilist thesis: that models are reliable mechanisms for the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws408">production of knowledge in the contexts in which they are aptly applied. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86c">If this is the case, then at least part of what warrants many judgments is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10f">something about the models used to frame them, in which case mental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws826">models are of fundamental importance to epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. I will also explore </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws139">(in the next section) the further question of whether models themselves are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30d">subject to epistemological evaluation in a fashion that goes beyond their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e2">aptness and reliability—for example, whether we should speak of models, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">as well as judgments and beliefs, as being warranted. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ab">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e should distinguish two types of judgments and their different rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3c">tionships to models. One type of judgment makes explicit one or more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6af">features or commitments of a model. “A body at rest will remain at rest </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b7">unless acted on by an external force” and “bodies exert an attractive for<span class="_ _2e"></span>ce </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75c">described by the inverse square law” express basic commitments of New-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws313">tonian mechanics. “Bishops may move diagonally” expresses a basic com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ac">mitment of a model of chess. Insofar as one is using the model, one is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b1">normatively committed to such judgments. And to the extent that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc00">model is apt, the judgments are true. In many cases, such judgments also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws515">seem intuitively obvious and even necessary to someone conversant with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">the model. (Indeed, they <span class="ff47 ws0">are</span> “necessary” in the sense of being constitutive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws261">commitments of the model, much as the parallel postulate is a constitu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws808">tive commitment of Euclidean geometry and thus necessarily true-within-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws139">Euclidean-geometry<span class="_ _2"></span>.) At least when one is using the model naively—that is, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws240">not attending to the fact that it is idealized and might not be aptly applied </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws840">in all cases—such judgments seem <span class="ff47 ws0">self-evident</span><span class="ls11 wsb89">. Indeed, I suspect that the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws780">vast majority of judgments whose truth seems self-evident do so <span class="ff47 ws0">because </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd9">they express principles of deeply entrenched models that we can access </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46b">through intuitive processes.</div><div class="t m0 x28 h8 y98 ff46 fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1</div><div class="t m0 x61 h5 y7a0 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46b"> Of course, the fact that models are idealized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc71 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31">and not apt for all cases implies that we are in danger of epistemic illusion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc72 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78b">(see chap. 14) if we endorse such propositions as universal and unidealized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc73 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws354">claims. But they are warranted (a) as claims about the commitments of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc74 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbbd">model, (b) as claims about what must be the case wherever the model is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc75 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws728">aptly applied, and often (c) as prima facie but defeasible assumptions if the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc76 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">model is one that is broadly and routinely applicable. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
