<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf117" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="117"><div class="pc pc117 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y474 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xb8 h5 y602 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b6 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1f h5 y6b7 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xdd h5 y72a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y557 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b9 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x51 h5 y732 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">291 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cf">While judgments of this first type are often prominent in philosophy </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws385">and the sciences, the vast majority of judgments we make are not of this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">type; they are judgments in which models are employed in how we frame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64d">particular states of affairs: “this body is at rest,” “this body will take five </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws22a">seconds to reach the ground after it is dropped,” “the white bishop is in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d">position to capture the black queen.” Such judgments are neither derivable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">from nor warranted by models alone, as they also depend on facts in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">world. Nevertheless there are important relationships between the framing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3d">models and the truth and warrant of the judgments. A judgment can go </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7dd">wrong in one way if it is framed in terms of an inapt model. In the context </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws181">of cosmology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it makes no sense to speak of absolute rest. The Archbishop </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws752">of Canterbury and the Queen of England may be standing in a diagonal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa20">relation on a checkered dais, and someone glancing at the scene might take </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9cf">it to be part of a game of human chess; but the observer would be mistaken, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86">and the bishop is not poised to capture the queen (because he is not a <span class="ff47 ws0">chess </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws703">bishop or she a <span class="ff47 ws0">chess</span> queen at all, and the notion of “capture” employed in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c8">chess does not apply to them). If I use an inapt model to frame a situation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws584">any warrant that its inferential rules might provide for a judgment based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">on them is nullified. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29e">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can also go wrong even when we use apt models, if we do not use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c6">their resources to properly represent the particulars of the situation. In traf-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43a">fic court, it does make sense to speak of “being at rest” or “standing still” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c8">(with the surface of the Earth or the roads treated as a fixed frame of refer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws170">ence), but people routinely seem to think they have stopped at the inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3c">section at the base of my street when in fact they have never slowed down </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws440">below five miles per hour<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The chess player may not see the board properly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c">or not realize that moving his bishop would expose his king to checkmate. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ab">In such cases, the model employed <span class="ff47 ws0">did</span><span class="ls1a ws5c8"> provide ways of representing things </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws1d0">in a fashion we would count as true, but the judgment that was actually </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws22d">made represented things in another way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, which we count as false. Again, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws98">in such cases, any warrant that might have been conferred by the model is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws55">nullified. If the board <span class="ff47 ws0">had</span><span class="ls7"> been as I thought it was, my judgment that I was </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb48">in a position to capture the opposing queen by moving my bishop <span class="ff47 ws0">would </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">have been warranted, but the antecedent of the conditional is in fact false. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16a">When we frame a situation using a model, all the inferential power of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws470">the model becomes immediately available through intuitive model-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">understanding. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e are able to attend to further implications through the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws749">lens of the model, often in such a fashion that it does not even seem like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3">inference, but merely as “simply seeing” things such as that I can capture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b">the opposing queen. If the framing goes <span class="ff47 ws0">right</span><span class="ls11 ws2d4">—if we employ an apt model </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
