<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf1c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="1c"><div class="pc pc1c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1a h5 y292 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y293 ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y26a ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x61 h5 y294 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7 h5 y295 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y270 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y296 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">22 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 2 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws98">I think that it is initially plausible that cases of all four types actually exist. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws283">Indeed, I think that evidence for the reality of the first and fourth cases is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws284">clear and compelling. Whether the two intermediate categories are exem-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23b">plified, and how much of our mental life falls into either of them, are the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">sort of questions that the cognitive sciences attempt to address. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y202 ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Two Levels of Intentional Explanation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c2">Advocates of language-like mental representations often appeal to “the suc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws135">cess of intentional explanation” to justify their position. But it is impor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws285">tant to distinguish two very different types of explanation here. The first </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws286">kind is the sort of explanation of a person’<span class="_ _2"></span>s words or deeds in terms of her </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws287">beliefs, desires, and other intentional states that we find ubiquitously in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31">ordinary life, like the explanation, earlier in the chapter<span class="_ _2"></span>, of why Jane went </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws288">to the refrigerator<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Fodor and other representationalists do indeed appeal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e">to the success of such explanations to justify their position, claiming that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws289">such explanations could work only if there really are such things as beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28a">and desires with propositional content that play causal roles in the pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28b">duction of behavior<span class="_ _2"></span>, and that the only viable account of how this could </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ca">work involves treating them as occurrent mental representations. Dennett </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28c">agrees that this kind of explanation works well, but he denies that it should </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28d">be taken as the type of explanation that posits causal mechanisms or the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28e">existence of occurrent <span class="ffe ws0">states</span> called “beliefs” and “desires.” Both of these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdc">positions strike me as at least <span class="ffe ws0">coherent</span><span class="ls11 ws28f"> accounts of the nature of intentional </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws290">explanation, and they involve very different commitments to features of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">cognitive architecture. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y214 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws291">Cognitive science also offers a second and deeper type of explanation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws292">involving the postulation of mechanisms that explain not only the result-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws293">ing behavior but also things like the time it takes to perform a cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws294">task, what additional forms of information are sought in the accomplish-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws295">ment of a task, characteristic patterns of error and breakdown, and so on. It </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws296">is this sort of explanation, not the commonsense explanation of behavior<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws297">that is the real work of theoretical cognitive science. Cognitive scientists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws298">propose accounts of the types of representations and processes that might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws299">underlie different types of competence and performance. There might be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29a">any number of possible cognitive architectures involving different types of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29b">representations and processes that could, in principle, produce the same </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29c">end result; but this does not render them indistinguishable, because <span class="ffe ws0">how </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42">they produce it can have testable consequences. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can prove, for exam-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29d">ple, that chess masters do not decide on a move through brute force serial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws252">evaluation of the possible moves, because we can calculate how many steps </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
