<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf118" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="118"><div class="pc pc118 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x65 h5 ya6 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xca h5 yc77 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 yc78 ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb8d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y78e ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _102"> </span> <span class="_ _14c"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc79 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf7 h5 yc7a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc7b ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">292 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws335">and use the best representation afforded by the model for our judgment— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws112">these further judgments are also <span class="ff47 ws0">warranted</span>. Models thus provide richly pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bd">ductive mechanisms for generating judgments, and when the model is apt, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8e2">they are reliable mechanisms for generating true judgments. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">the extent that the warrant is supplied by the inferential potencies of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws349">model, we may attribute the warrant conferred not only to judgments but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3e">also to beliefs in the broader dispositional sense when they are ones we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79b">are capable of making into judgments using the resources of model-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y206 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Are Models Epistemically Evaluable? </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">Are models themselves epistemically evaluable? Given the standard char-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78e">acterization of knowledge as warranted true belief, models cannot count </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48">as knowledge, because models are not beliefs. (And as the terms ‘true’ and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d2">‘false’ are applicable only to beliefs and to other units of the same size, such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3f">as propositions and sentences, models cannot be true or false, either<span class="_ _2d"></span>.) It </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e5">is true, of course, that we sometimes speak of some types of models, such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws580">as scientific theories, as “true” and as “knowledge,” but this does not so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f4">much present a challenge as it bespeaks an ordinary language usage that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d9">is broader than technical usage, or a residual assumption that theories are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84b">propositional in character<span class="_ _2"></span>, or perhaps really that we can make statements </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">about<span class="ff46 ws3a"> the aptness of models, and such </span>statements<span class="ff46 ws3a"> can be true or false, war-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ranted or unwarranted. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y212 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws529">While I have spoken (albeit briefly) to the reasons for using separate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d5">terms to express the alethetic virtues that are appropriately attributed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71e">judgments (and other sentence-sized units) and to models, I have yet to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7f">discuss the question of whether models are also units that can be <span class="ff47 ws0">evalu-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ated<span class="ff46 ws11f"> epistemically for warrant or something like it, apart from questions </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12f">of whether the beliefs constitutively associated with them are individually </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e9">warranted. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e have at least two distinct sorts of questions here. First, are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws523">models, as models, subject to any sort of epistemological evaluation at all? </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc40">Second, if they are, are the features that count as epistemic virtues for mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1e">els sufficiently like those that count as epistemic virtues for beliefs or judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e0">ments that we should use the same terminology for them—for example, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">should we speak of models as things that can be warranted? </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81f">Given the reliabilist characterization I have given earlier<span class="_ _2"></span>, one might be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c7">led to suppose that models are not likely to be subject to any sort of epis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws819">temological assessment beyond the fact that they can be reliable mecha-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws718">nisms for producing true beliefs and judgments and consequently confer </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ec">warrant on those beliefs and judgments. Perceptual mechanisms are often </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
