<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf119" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="119"><div class="pc pc119 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y150 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6d h5 y36e ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc7c ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _133"> </span> <span class="_ _14d"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y151 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _102"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y339 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _14e"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x39 h5 yc7d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc34 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5d h5 yac5 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc7e ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yac7 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">293 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b1">used as paradigm cases of reliable judgment-producing mechanisms. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc1b">such mechanisms—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, whatever neural processes produce a conceptually </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32">laden perceptual gestalt from a pattern of stimulation on sensory transduc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fb">ers—are not themselves the sorts of things that can be warranted or unwar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ea">ranted, unless perhaps by that we mean simply that they are <span class="ff47 ws0">reliable</span><span class="ls18 ws748">. They </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">deal in concepts and judgments only in their <span class="ff47 ws0">outputs</span><span class="ls11 ws5e4">, and their operations </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e4">are subject neither to introspective scrutiny nor to revision. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o be sure, we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws348">normally proceed on the tacit assumption (a “belief” in a very broad sense) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">that<span class="ff46 ws760"> the judgments they produce are trustworthy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and we can judge <span class="_ _130"></span><span class="ff47 ws0">that </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsff">they are unreliable under particular conditions on the basis of experience. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">These<span class="ff46 ws773"> beliefs and judgments can be (or fail to be) warranted, but that does </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22">not mean that the mechanisms themselves are warranted or unwarranted. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws394">The application of the notion of “warrant” to such perceptual mechanisms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">seems to be something of a category error<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws789">But this does not imply that belief-producing mechanisms <span class="ff47">in general</span><span class="lsb ws4d2"> are </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws708">not epistemically evaluable beyond the question of whether they reliably </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7d">produce true beliefs. Special features of the mechanisms involved in percep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws202">tual preprocessing may debar them from specifically epistemic evaluation: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws781">the mechanisms do not operate on conceptually laden content, operate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws418">automatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and are not subject to scrutiny or revision. Models can also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96d">operate automatically; and as some modules may also be models, some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77e">models may not be subject to scrutiny or revision, either<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But other models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws161">have inference patterns that operate on propositional content, can be used </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83b">deliberately as well as automatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and are subject to scrutiny and revi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">sion in light of <span class="ff47">reasons</span><span class="ls12 ws3c"> to do so. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8bc">I have used scientific theories as one paradigm example of mental mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a5">els. And scientific theories are clearly held to standards of epistemic evalua-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fb">tion: they are compared with one another for their adequacy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and we speak </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws315">of them as being “evidenced” or “confirmed.” It is perhaps a matter of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws905">semantic choice whether we should speak of theories themselves as being </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ba">“warranted” or say instead that beliefs <span class="ff47 ws0">about</span><span class="ls11 ws549"> their credentials are warranted </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">and use some other term (like “confirmed”) for theories themselves. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77">some form of epistemic evaluation clearly seems appropriate. So at least </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">some<span class="ff46 ws31"> mental models are subject to epistemic evaluation, whether we call it </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">“warrant” or “confirmation” or by some other name. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc41">But there are other types of mental models with respect to which it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ba">would sound decidedly odd to apply the same terms. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e would be unlikely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws69a">to speak of someone’<span class="_ _2"></span>s understanding of chess, restaurant dining, or vanity </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c5">as being justified, warranted, confirmed, or evidenced. If we make norma-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e6">tive evaluations of someone’<span class="_ _2"></span>s understanding of such matters, it is usually </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
