<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf11a" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="11a"><div class="pc pc11a w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xc9 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yfd ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6b6 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _12c"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc55 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _40"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x90 h5 y72d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc7f ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">294 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c6">in terms of whether they have gotten the model <span class="ff47 ws0">right</span><span class="ls11 ws690">. Moving a piece in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws307">an illegal way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, or failing to see an impending checkmate, or going to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws574">restaurant kitchen to prepare one’<span class="_ _2"></span>s own meal indicates a limitation or even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66e">a lack of understanding. But the deficiencies they show are more akin to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">falsity (having the wrong model altogether) than to lack of warrant. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50e">On closer scrutiny<span class="_ _2d"></span>, however<span class="_ _2e"></span>, it does make sense to ask questions about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbfd">whether one is entitled to all the assumptions implicit in the model one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsafd">is using. I recall a stage in learning chess as a child when I had observed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc42">pawns moving two spaces but had not recognized that this is permitted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4e">only on their initial moves. My error was quickly pointed out after I made </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8fc">what I had supposed to be a clever (but in fact illegal) move; and in ret-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30f">rospect I can see that I had incautiously made what turned out to be the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa24">wrong generalization based on my observations and whatever instruction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78b">I had received in the game at that point. It may well be that this happened </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws8ef">so early in my acquaintance with chess that I had not yet fully formed a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws285">model (even an incorrect one) of the game and was still operating at the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76d">level of memorized rules. But even so, if there had not been early occasion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws688">for the error to be corrected, I might very well have formed a deviant model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d0">of chess. Forming a deviant model is itself still a matter of getting the model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">wrong.<span class="ff46 ws4be"> But we might go on to ask questions about the epistemic merits and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws568">faults of the process through which I formed the assumption that a pawn </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws478">can generally move one or two spaces forward. One might debate whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws236">my internalization of a model with that particular set of deviant rules was </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">justified<span class="ff46 ws833">—I seem to recall a feeling of outrage at the time that my teacher </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54">had not made it clear that pawns could move two spaces <span class="ff47 ls11">only on the first </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">move<span class="ff46 ws718">—but the very fact that there is such a question to be asked implies </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">that epistemic evaluation has a place here. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11a">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can frame similar issues about the understanding of when a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd8">can aptly be applied. I recall trying to order wine at a fancy restaurant where </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaaa">such orders are handled not by the waiter or waitress but by a wine specialist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87c">called a sommelier<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The model of restaurant dining I was accustomed to was </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79c">one in which a single person takes all types of orders for food and drink, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c4">which is indeed an apt model to use in the vast majority of dining establish-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc43">ments I visit. I assumed it would aptly be applied at this particular restaurant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8bb">as well, but I was mistaken, and the waiter politely replied that he would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws906">send over the sommelier<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It was an understandable mistake; I had no way </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e6">of knowing based on a fairly long history of trips to restaurants, no one had </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ef">bothered to warn me, it was a mistake the restaurant staff probably encoun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ef">ter every day<span class="_ _2"></span>, and so on. Arguably<span class="_ _2d"></span>, while I had committed a minor faux pas, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws883">I had done so on the basis of assumptions to which I might claim epistemic </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
