<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf11b" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="11b"><div class="pc pc11b w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x6d h5 y352 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y46d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc70 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">295 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws206">entitlement. Nonetheless I have subsequently adopted a more cautious atti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws518">tude toward dining in unfamiliar contexts—particularly restaurants with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36d">waitstaff in black tie or where I am faced with an array of more pieces of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84a">silverware than I am sure what to do with. <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff47 ws0">Knowing<span class="ff46 ls11 ws108"> that dining contexts </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70d">are not all alike, I face questions about what I may safely assume. And even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d2">before I had this awareness, the assumptions were merely assumptions, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">in making them, I deviated from some type of ideal epistemic norm. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0b">Models of chess and restaurant etiquette differ from scientific models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse0">in an important way: one has the “right” model of chess or dining sim-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a9">ply by dint of having one that corresponds with the models that others </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76">are using. There is something of the same in understanding a scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws808">theory—say<span class="_ _2"></span>, having a correct understanding of classical mechanics—but a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21e">further question arises as to whether that model is an adequate model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws260">the phenomena it is applied to, and this latter question is at issue in sci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5db">entific confirmation. But scientific models are by no means unique in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31c">respect. The models I use to navigate my house or the town I live in have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws359">to track features of those environments if they are to enable me to navigate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws977">successfully<span class="_ _2d"></span>, even though their assumptions and commitments are seldom </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws900">explicitly expressed. The statistical heuristics we employ in everyday life </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e3">are apt (or not) for particular contexts, and we can be in better or worse </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws70">positions to assess their aptness. (Hence the tendency of researchers deal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa2">ing with heuristics and biases to describe inapt strategies as “irrational,” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws225">particularly when the person who employs them is in a position to know </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws440">they are inapt.) Our models of social categories such as race and gender are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws135">often woefully inadequate to representing their targets and are produced </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc44">and reinforced through mechanisms that are notoriously unreliable for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52e">tracking the facts. The processes of consciousness-raising that can disabuse </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws878">us of such social biases are not only morally edifying but also put us in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">better epistemic position with respect to our social understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws305">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e probably need far more discussion of the epistemic evaluation of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc45">models than I am in a position to give here, and different types of models are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws401">likely to require different types of evaluation. Epistemic evaluation seems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws130">appropriate with respect to ways a model is produced, how (or if) it can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws138">scrutinized and adjusted, and how we can learn to distinguish the cases in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws292">which it is apt from those in which it is not and use it only in contexts in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37a">which it is apt. Developmentally canalized models like the core systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws535">are produced primarily through evolution and development, but these can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e0">perhaps be regarded as prior mechanisms that can be evaluated for their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws890">reliability in producing apt models. Learned models can be held account-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws242">able to standards of confirmation and can generally also be adjusted and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
