<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf11c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="11c"><div class="pc pc11c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ya6 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _12c"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x42 h5 ydb ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y158 ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y159 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5f0 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _8f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y7be ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xae h5 yc80 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x17 h5 yc6b ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y9c8 ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y269 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">296 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ad">improved on. In both cases, true mastery of the model involves not only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">having<span class="ff46 ws226"> the model and being able to use it, but also having an understanding </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">of where it is aptly applied. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y201 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Models as Integral Epistemic Units </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cc">A model-based view of understanding has implications for epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e7">because models turn out to be important epistemic units in their own right, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f5">over and above beliefs. If models are themselves epistemically evaluable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc46">and furthermore provide warrant for judgments and beliefs, an episte-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d8">mological theory that deals exclusively with beliefs leaves out something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws168">important. But incorporating mental models into epistemology also has a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws415">further implication that will prove particularly important in assessing the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c0">adequacy of two of the major epistemological theories, foundationalism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">and holism. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y20a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc47">Models are <span class="ff47">integral units</span>. Often the commitments of a model can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74">made explicit in the form of judgments and implication rules, but a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7fd">is not simply an assemblage of beliefs and implication rules that can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws287">independently specified, as these are constitutively interrelated—or<span class="_ _2"></span>, as it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws678">is sometimes phrased, “interdefined.” This has been a familiar claim about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb8c">scientific theories for several decades, and that alone should have been </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3c">enough to cause a rethinking of belief-based epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. If it is a general </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e">characteristic of mental models, and models are the basis of understanding, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">the implications are all the more urgent. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y212 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws833">In philosophy of science, theories are commonly regarded as principal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws898">units for <span class="ff47 ws0">confirmation</span>. The credentials of relativistic claims about mass can-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bc">not be evaluated apart from relativistic claims about space and time, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89e">vice versa. Likewise, applications of the theory to particular cases are war-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws821">ranted by the aptness of the theory as a whole. An adequate epistemol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscd">ogy of science must accommodate the role of models—as integral units—in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc48">receiving justification and conferring warrant. If similar considerations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws644">apply to models generally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the implications for epistemology are consider-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wseb">ably broader<span class="_ _2d"></span>. I argue in the next section that this has a serious implication </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa40">for the field of epistemology: neither foundationalism nor global coherent-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa76">ism can be a fully adequate epistemological theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, because neither accords </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">model-sized units their proper role. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y178 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">15.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Cognitive Pluralism and Theories of Knowledge </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e1 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws541">Now that I have given a rough characterization of the cognitive pluralist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y6e2 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28">view of the interrelationships between models, beliefs, and warrant, let us </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
