<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf11d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="11d"><div class="pc pc11d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 yc81 ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1fa ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3ef ff46 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xbd h4 y3f6 ff46 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y688 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc82 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc83 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">297 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ed">turn to its relation to familiar theories in epistemology and its implications </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws337">for those theories. Epistemology is the study of knowledge. Mainstream </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws109">contemporary epistemology is pursued under the shared assumption that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws206">knowledge is warranted true belief, alternative theories differing principally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws309">in their accounts of what makes a belief warranted. The traditional alterna-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws767">tives for an account of warrant are foundationalism and coherentism, along </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">with a more recent contender called reliabilism. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y204 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">Reliabilism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws545">While reliabilism is a relatively new addition to the list of philosophical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws887">accounts of epistemic warrant, I will address it first, because the character-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws84b">ization I have given of the warrant conferred by apt models seems in fact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf8">to be a reliabilist view<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The reliabilist holds that a belief is warranted if and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a">only if it is produced by a reliable mechanism for producing true beliefs in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b2">that type of context. Alvin Plantinga, for example, writes that a belief is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">warranted if and only if it meets the following conditions: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3ef ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc49">(1) It has been produced in me by cognitive faculties that are working properly … in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f3 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc4a">a cognitive environment that is appropriate for my kinds of cognitive faculties, (2) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f4 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb63">the segment of design plan governing the production of that belief is aimed at the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f5 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc4b">production of true beliefs, and (3) there is a high statistical probability that a belief </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f6 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">produced under those conditions will be true. (Plantinga 1993, 46) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y688 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c1">Saying that a mechanism for belief production is “reliable” in producing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y689 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48e">true beliefs does not really tell us much about the mechanism, even if the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc84 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws815">reliability of the mechanism is cashed out in terms of probability<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc85 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bb">not necessarily a bad characteristic for the reliabilist theory to have, as there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc86 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ba">may be many reliable mechanisms that are reliable in different ways and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc87 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws747">for different reasons, and hence a highly flexible account of warrant may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc88 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">actually be required. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc89 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ca">One of the core applications of reliabilist accounts has been to the pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc8a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws746">duction of beliefs through perception, where the causes of the belief are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc8b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ba">not themselves beliefs. It seems clear enough that perceptual processes are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc8c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45f">in some broad sense “mechanisms,” and the details of how they work and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc8d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws94d">why they are reliable can be left to the cognitive scientists. But to extend the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc8e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ec">theory further<span class="_ _2"></span>, we would need some way of clarifying what sort of “faculty” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc8f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">or “mechanism” might be involved in nonperceptual belief formation. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc90 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws929">In my account, models provide ways of framing situations and forming </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc91 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">judgments about them, as well as licensing judgments about them. Some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc92 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24f">“beliefs” in the dispositional sense, moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, can be seen in terms of what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yc93 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws948">inferences are licensed by the inferential rules of the model. Models are </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
