<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf11e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="11e"><div class="pc pc11e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xd3 h5 yfd ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y26a ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa2 h5 y26e ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x32 h5 y9a9 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y338 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbb h5 y557 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xfb h5 y55a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">298 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws168">thus, among other things, “faculties” or “mechanisms” for judgment pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ae">duction, and when the model is aptly applied, it confers warrant on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ba">judgments thus formed. It is thus natural to view a model-based account </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws683">as a way of fleshing out a reliabilist epistemology with respect to a large </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2dc">and important class of ways that beliefs are formed through nonperceptual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">processes. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y203 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">Foundationalism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38a">Foundationalism is a very old philosophical view<span class="_ _2"></span>. V<span class="_ _2"></span>ariations on it were </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws348">endorsed by Aristotle and his medieval followers, by early modern philoso-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc4c">phers in both the rationalist and empiricist camps, and by a significant </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b8">number of twentieth-century philosophers, including some of the logical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ad">positivists, such as Moritz Schlick (1934/1979). Aristotle is often credited </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ad">with first articulating a foundationalist account of knowledge in his <span class="ff47 ws0">Pos-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws463">terior Analytics<span class="ff46">, in response to a skeptical problem about demonstrative </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws445">knowledge, the <span class="ff47">regress problem</span>. The skeptic argues that whatever is known </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc4d">must be demonstrated—that is, deduced validly from things that are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85">already known. But for those things to be known, they must be demon-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ab">strated from other things that are already known, and so on, in an infinite </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a">regress, so that the chain of demonstration cannot get off the ground, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws707">hence knowledge is impossible. Aristotle seems to endorse demonstration </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws562">as a paradigm for knowledge but rejects both the skeptical regress and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c">alternative of circular demonstration in favor of the view that there can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws862">be another<span class="_ _2"></span>, nondemonstrative form of knowledge of the first and foun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws500">dational premises. Thus we have two types of knowledge: things that are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85a">known directly in their own right, and things validly derived from such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws589">foundations. This is the core of a foundationalist view of knowledge: in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa0">contemporary terms, a belief is warranted if and only if it is either (1) prop-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws298">erly basic or (2) derived in the right sort of way (usually meaning by valid </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">deduction) from properly basic beliefs. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y219 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws335">Several brief observations are in order<span class="_ _2"></span>. First, both the core view and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15b">way it is arrived at bear the distinctive marks of the standard view of cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws868">nition. Not only are the <span class="ff47 ws0">units</span> sentence sized (beliefs, judgments, proposi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws912">tions, or actual sentences) and argument sized (demonstrations), but the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4a">starting point of the discussion is a paradigm of knowledge as a product </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws711">of demonstrative argumentation. Second, while contemporary discussions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f2">in epistemology generally employ the word ‘belief’, it seems clear that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws152">account is really an account of specifically <span class="ff47 ws0">occurrent</span><span class="ls11 ws153"> beliefs (i.e., judgments), </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">as it is hard to see how merely dispositional beliefs could plausibly be seen </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab0">as products of demonstration. And third, I have described what I have </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
