<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf120" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="120"><div class="pc pc120 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xf9 h4 y245 ff46 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb9f ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc97 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x96 h5 yc98 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _94"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x69 h5 yc99 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yc9a ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">300 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc4f">incorrigible, or indubitable. However, around this time there was a growing recogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws632">tion that foundationalism was compatible with basic beliefs that lacked these epis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc50">temically exalted properties. William Alston …, C. F. Delaney …, and Mark Pastin … </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc51">all argued that a foundationalist epistemology merely required that the basic beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc52">have a level of positive epistemic status independent of warranting relations from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc53">other beliefs. In light of this weaker form of foundationalism the attacks against </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc54">infallibility, incorrigibility, or indubitability did not touch the core of a foundation-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y245 ff46 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">alist epistemology. (Poston 2015) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb9f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b6">Modest foundationalism avoids one of the problems with strong foun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yba7 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56">dationalism: its overly high epistemic standard for properly basic beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yba8 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws218">or judgments. But it retains the core foundationalist commitment to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yba9 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws613">assumption that beliefs are warranted individually<span class="_ _2d"></span>, some by being properly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybaa ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws390">basic and others by being inferred from properly basic beliefs. And it is this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybab ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ad">commitment that is most directly at odds with a model-based cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybac ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">pluralism. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ybad ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws345">From a cognitive pluralist standpoint, the claim that some judgments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybae ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws435">are warranted because of how they are inferred from other judgments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybaf ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa32">need not itself be regarded as problematic. A cognitive pluralist can cer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb0 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33">tainly recognize that we do sometimes reason using various forms of logical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb1 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws291">inference ranging over sentence-sized units, and the validity of the infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb2 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws779">ence form and the warrant of the premises are surely relevant to the epis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb3 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfb">temic status of the conclusions thus derived. The problem is that this is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb4 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10d">neither the <span class="ff47 ws0">only</span> nor even the <span class="ff47">most fundamental</span><span class="ls11 ws2bf"> source of warrant, and the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb5 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c">kind of warrant conferred by models does not simply attach to individual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb6 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79d">judgments one by one. At the least, <span class="ff47 ws0">some</span><span class="ls11 ws4e8"> of our beliefs that have excellent </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb7 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b">credentials for counting as knowledge, such as those involved in scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb8 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9bf">theories, are neither individually properly basic nor justified by inference </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybb9 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsc55">from other beliefs that are already warranted as properly basic. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybba ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws291">the beliefs and the whole framework of concepts and inferential patterns </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbb ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a">are warranted together<span class="_ _2"></span>, as a unit. And if the cognitive pluralist is correct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbc ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws824">that this is not an idiosyncratic feature of scientific theories, but a much </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbd ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc56">more general feature of model-based understanding, foundationalism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbe ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws143">lacks the resources to explain how an extremely large number of our beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybbf ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws988">are warranted. At the least, foundationalism is incomplete as an account </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc0 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc57">of knowledge and requires resources of a very different sort to supple-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc1 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws9b">ment it. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ybc2 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17b">From a cognitive pluralist perspective, foundationalism seems best inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc3 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse8">preted as an idealized model of a particular dimension of epistemic good-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc4 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws519">ness. It is specifically focused on judgments produced by argumentative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ybc5 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4e">inference, and quite reasonably identifies the validity of the inference and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
