<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf121" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="121"><div class="pc pc121 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x45 h5 yfd ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y30d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9af ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">301 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fe">the warrant of the premises as factors relevant to the epistemic assessment </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22d">of judgments thus derived. The legitimate conclusion of the regress argu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb36">ment is that, for such a process of transferring warrant through logical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws802">inference to get off the ground, there must be premises that are warranted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa0e">in some other way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It would perhaps have been best to stop here and regard </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96c">this as a consequence of how the account is idealized: that it is <span class="ff47 ws0">just</span><span class="ls1e ws256"> an </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bd">account of warrant-via-inference and simply brackets the question of how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">else judgments can be warranted. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc58">Some versions of modest foundationalism, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, have in fact explored </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c6">ways that the theory can be supplemented with other sorts of resources, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc59">and at least one of these suggests a way that a modest foundationalist might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws716">attempt to incorporate insights about mental models. One long-standing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa47">problem for epistemology was that of how sensation and perception can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5a">warrant beliefs. Alvin Goldman (1979) proposed a reliabilist account of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">this: perceptual beliefs can be properly basic by dint of being produced by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f8">perceptual mechanisms that reliably produce true beliefs. While reliabilism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83c">has gone on to be regarded as an epistemological theory supplying its own </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91e">account of warrant, Goldman’<span class="_ _2"></span>s account is often also classified as a founda-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8cf">tionalist account, augmented with a reliabilist story about how a certain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws674">class of judgments come to be properly basic. This, in turn, suggests a way </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb70">that a modest foundationalist might embrace models as playing a role in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35">warranting beliefs and judgments. If, like perceptual mechanisms, models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85a">reliably generate true judgments when aptly applied, at least some judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ments produced from models might count as properly basic. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5b">I prefer to leave it to the foundationalists to decide what should be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77b">counted as a variant on foundationalism, or a supplement to it, and what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c9">needs to be viewed as a nonfoundationalist account. Clearly the core com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52f">mitments of foundationalism leave open questions about the noninferen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws383">tial sources of warrant, and I believe that some of these are derived from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws658">model-based understanding. Just how model-based understanding can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws611">combined with a foundationalist account is constrained by the fact that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws179">foundationalists group all noninferential knowledge together in the cat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbd7">egory of properly basic beliefs. So whether beliefs that derive their war-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb3c">rant from models can be accommodated within a basically foundationalist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws259">framework will depend on how one understands what it means for a belief </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bc">to be properly basic. Strong foundationalism, of course, has extremely high </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ea">standards for proper basicality<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and judgments produced from model-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b1">mechanisms do not seem to meet those standards. I have explored how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws485">models can produce “intuitive” judgments, but we have also seen that such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscf">judgments are far from infallible, though they may come with a subjective </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
