<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf1d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="1d"><div class="pc pc1d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x68 h5 y297 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa1 h5 y298 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y299 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4 h5 y29a ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y29b ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y29c ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y29d ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">23 <span class="_ _1e"></span>A Standard Philosophical View of Cognitive Architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29e">such a process would require, we know the approximate time in millisec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29f">onds that a single cognitive operation takes in the human brain, and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0">result of combining these factors is far longer than the chess master’<span class="_ _2"></span>s actual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">response time. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a0">It would be simply naive to assume that contemporary cognitive scien-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a1">tists who favor a cognitive architecture involving language-like intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a2">representations do so merely because explaining people’<span class="_ _2"></span>s actions in terms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a3">of their beliefs and desires succeeds so frequently in ordinary life. Cogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a4">tive science is a highly competitive field, in which researchers are exploring </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a5">alternative cognitive architectures, procedures, and implementations. In </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a6">fact, it is common to distinguish “cognitive science” from “artificial intel-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a7">ligence” on the basis of whether the research is aimed at an empirically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a8">plausible account of human cognition (cognitive science) or the produc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a9">tion of intelligent machine behavior through whatever means (artificial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2aa">intelligence). Theoretical cognitive science is engaged with experimental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a1">evidence from cognitive <span class="ffe ws0">psychology</span><span class="ls1a ws2ab"> and holds itself accountable to explain-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2ac">ing such evidence. And researchers in competing labs can be avid in their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2ad">attempts to show that their approach can accommodate the full range of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2ae">data in ways that their competitors’ cannot. Of course, it is part of any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2af">scientific research project that resear<span class="_ _2e"></span>chers will doggedly try to find ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2b0">to make their own approach work in the face of apparent obstacles. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2b1">when researchers advocate a cognitive ar<span class="_ _2e"></span>chitecture that is committed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2b2">language-like propositional representations, they do so generally because </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2b3">that approach has demonstrated some success at producing explanations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws2b4">of a number of psychological phenomena that have been demonstrated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws21f">in a laboratory<span class="_ _2"></span>, and in a fashion that warrants some hope of a realistic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws0">interpretation.</div><div class="t m0 xa2 h8 y8a ffc fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">2 </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y29e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b5">This, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, cuts both ways. Theoretical cognitive science is also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y29f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12a">home to a number of theories of cognitive architecture in which language-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a0 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws2b6">like propositional representations play less of a role or none at all; and a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a1 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22b">number of aspects of cognition are arguably better explained by alternative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a2 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b7">cognitive architectures, such as connectionist ar<span class="_ _2e"></span>chitectures, Bayesian nets, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a3 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">or models, a form of which I am recommending in this book. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y2a4 ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">2.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Alternative Proposals regarding Architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a5 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b8">Several kinds of potential problems for the three-tiered cognitive architec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a6 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws208">ture of the standard view stem from reasons to favor different views of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a7 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b9">cognitive architecture. One threat comes from approaches to the mind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2a8 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ba">that seem to oppose the idea that there is really such a thing as <span class="ffe ws0">cognitive </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
