<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf122" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="122"><div class="pc pc122 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y56d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y152 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _ee"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yac4 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _14f"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y36f ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _cc"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc6 h5 yc9b ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">302 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>15 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5c">sense of certainty<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But the modest foundationalist is not committed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e6">such high standards, and there seems to be no obvious and uncontentious </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7dc">answer to the question of how the modest foundationalist ought to under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">stand proper basicality<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws318">One possibility is that a belief should be counted as properly basic just in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws138">case it is warranted, but not in a fashion derived from logical inference. In </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws670">this interpretation, judgments produced by the apt application of models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws161">might indeed count as properly basic. But if this is all that “properly basic” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws786">means, there might be any number of noninferential sources of warrant, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws457">and all that groups them into a class is a feature they lack: they are <span class="ff47 ws0">not </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14b">processes of logical inference. This might not be such a problem if they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5d">also shared some feature that rendered them in some recognizable sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">foundational<span class="ff46 ws5c">. But it is not clear how the metaphor of a “foundation” should </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5e">be understood once one has abandoned stronger forms of foundational-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d5">ism. Perhaps it should be understood epistemically: foundational beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws665">are those about which there are no further epistemic questions to ask. Or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws741">perhaps it should be understood psychologically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in terms of the origins </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31a">of beliefs and judgments: the foundational ones are the first epistemically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws248">evaluable ones in a process, or perhaps ones without which no other beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">or judgments could be warranted. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws331">It seems plausible to me that beliefs based in models may fit <span class="ff47 ws0">some</span><span class="ls10 ws283"> such </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">psychological<span class="ff46 ws872"> criteria: without models we would have no beliefs at all, and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws816">these are the beliefs on which any other epistemic processes operate. How-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1a">ever<span class="_ _2"></span>, most models are learned, and in learning a model, we often engage </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44a">in some sort of process of confirming that it is a good model, at least for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa84">particular epistemic and practical ends. The process of confirmation may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws159">be unconscious, implicit, and nonargumentative (though in cases like sci-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws919">entific models, a good deal of explicit reasoning often goes into building </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35">and confirming them), but models are not really “epistemic foundations” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33c">in the sense of being “givens” whose epistemic credentials can be taken </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws246">for granted. As a consequence, the production of judgments from models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd1">does not seem to be an epistemological foundation, either<span class="_ _2d"></span>. There <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff47 ws0">are<span class="ff46 wsd1"> fur-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws577">ther epistemological questions about judgments produced by models: ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws567">tions about whether the model is a good model of its domain, whether it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws903">aptly applied in this circumstance, and whether the judgment produced is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws191">the best judgment among the options available from the model. There are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5f">likewise further epistemological questions about models themselves and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa26">the beliefs expressing their systematic commitments: about how they are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws169">idealized, and about what sorts of cases the models are apt for and hence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws847">about which of the judgments they produce and their implicit constitutive </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
