<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf123" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="123"><div class="pc pc123 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x2 h5 y5f ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y13f ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x104 h5 y140 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x30 h5 y72c ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _150"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y142 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">303 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc60">beliefs can be true. (These questions, moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, can be asked not only about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">learned models but about developmentally canalized models as well.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4e">It thus seems decidedly odd to characterize models as epistemic <span class="ff47 ws0">founda-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff47 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tions<span class="ff46 ws3b9">. Models may indeed be in some sense prior to beliefs and judgments, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws891">and the epistemic credentials of beliefs and judgments ultimately depen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb85">dent on the qualities of the models in which they are framed. But given </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e">that there are multiple learned models, often possessing different constitu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f2">tive beliefs and licensing contradictory judgments, the resulting picture is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">closer to Neurath’<span class="_ _2"></span>s metaphor of a raft we are always reconfiguring than to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Schlick’<span class="_ _2"></span>s model of a pyramid of knowledge. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc61">Alternatively<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the modest foundationalist might be inclined to view </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c0">at least some of the processes by which models give rise to judgments as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws747">forms of <span class="ff47 ws0">inference</span>, distinct from, but not necessarily less respectable than, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc62">deductive inference. Some foundationalists have long embraced nonde-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71d">ductive inference forms—induction, retroduction—as conferring warrant, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14c">and there seems no principled reason that other inferential processes could </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa58">not also be included. This strategy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, however<span class="_ _2e"></span>, strikes me as problematic as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bf">well. I have no objection to calling some of the model-based processes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96d">that produce judgments “inferences”; indeed, it seems a natural way to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9ca">characterize them. The potential sticking point is that if we do so, they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws397">are inferences <span class="ff47 ws0">to</span> things with propositional form but not <span class="ff47 ws0">from</span><span class="ls12 ws6a5"> things with </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws218">propositional form, as models neither are, nor are made up of, beliefs or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws921">judgments. The problem here is that foundationalism characterizes the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a">inferential grounding relation as one between beliefs, which would not be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws376">true of an “inferential” process in which model-based processes generate a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">judgment through their own nonlogical, nonargumentative mechanisms. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws28e">Broadening the foundationalist notion of “inference” in this way would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws707">seem to risk losing a distinction that lies at the heart of foundationalism: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b4">the distinction between the kind of warrant conferral that comes through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc42">argument and whatever other ways a judgment or belief might come to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws291">be warranted. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y147 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5cd">If models are themselves subject to some form of epistemic evaluation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63e">and play a role in conferring warrant on judgments and beliefs, founda-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29f">tionalism is an inadequate account of knowledge. Most fundamentally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws390">neglects models as a distinct type of epistemic unit, not reducible to beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b7">and inferences. Because of this, it also lacks the resources to accommodate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws960">the roles models play in warranting beliefs and judgments. Modest founda-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws232">tionalists might seek to treat a model-based account as a supplemental story </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29c">compatible with foundationalism, whether by treating models as reliable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws406">mechanisms for producing properly basic beliefs or by treating model-based </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
