<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf125" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="125"><div class="pc pc125 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x25 h5 y56d ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y725 ff48 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y726 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y9e4 ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x17 h5 y5ee ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _153"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y9cf ff46 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws887"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff48 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">305 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa1c">is a prima facie indication of a problem and gives us reason for further scru-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws706">tiny<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But it may present an insurmountable problem if it turns out to arise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2de">from the ways different models are idealized. On the other hand, incom-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc67">mensurability between models need not always result in inconsistency </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f">between beliefs, because models are idealized and not applied aptly to all </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc68">cases. In some cases, like quantum complementarity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the incommensurabil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsea">ity of models may not lead to inconsistency of beliefs because we recognize </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws269">that one of the models should not be applied in the case at hand, and hence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws11">we do not endorse the application of that model to the case by forming a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">judgment based on that model. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y207 ff48 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">15.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>A View of the Status of Accounts of Epistemology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68e">The basic line of criticism I have leveled at standard epistemological views </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws232">has been that while each may pick out factors that are relevant to the assess-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc26">ment of warrant, none of them can tell the full story<span class="_ _2"></span>. In the case of foun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc69">dationalism and coherentism, the problem is that, as general theories, they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48c">leave important things out or get some things wrong. In the case of reliabi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws839">lism, the issue is that a simple appeal to “reliability” does not tell us much </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">about the psychological nature of the reliable mechanisms. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y168 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">Foundationalism, coherentism, and reliabilism are often treated as rival </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9b">theories of warrant. In philosophical writing, proponents of one account </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8d0">will often show how their theory handles a particular range of cases well, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77f">but argue that the rival accounts yield counterintuitive assessments of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73a">which beliefs are warranted. The underlying assumption of such arguments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c5">is that each theory is taken to be offered as a comprehensive and unideal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8fc">ized account of the same thing: something called “epistemic warrant” or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">“knowledge.” But cognitive pluralism suggests an alternative way to view </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f0">them. Each account is an <span class="ff47 ws0">idealized</span> account of <span class="ff47">one dimension</span><span class="ls12 ws4cf"> of epistemic </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3de">evaluation. Beliefs can be justified by their relationships to other beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws512">in various ways, and the ways we reason from some beliefs to others are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws621">relevant to the overall status of the derived beliefs, as the foundationalist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws148">suggests. The ways various beliefs cohere or conflict with one another are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71d">also relevant to their epistemic status, as are the ways they are produced </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbfe">by mechanisms that are or are not reliable in a given type of situation. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c">Arguably<span class="_ _2d"></span>, each account provides a useful way of looking at how beliefs can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3df">go awry that is not captured by the others. W<span class="_ _2"></span>e might thus look at differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc6a">ent epistemological theories not as rival accounts but as multiple ideal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws83c">ized ways of looking at an issue (epistemic warrant, or how beliefs come to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff46 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws887">count as knowledge) that is too complex to be handled by a single theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
