<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf127" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="127"><div class="pc pc127 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b2 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xdb h5 ycae ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycaf ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x79 h4 ycb0 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h4 ycb1 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycb2 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff4b fs0 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _108"> </span> <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ls13"> <span class="_ _30"></span><span class="ls0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ydf ff4b fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span>Chapter <span class="_ _109"> </span>16 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ye0 ff4b fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="wsc6c">Cognitive Pluralism and Semantics <span class="_ _156"></span><span class="ws0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff4b fs0 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">16 <span class="_ _15"> </span>Cognitive Pluralism and Semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws692">Many sorts of things are said to “be meaningful” or “have semantic con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y128 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws603">tent.” Some of these are mental: concepts, beliefs and other dispositional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y129 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc00">intentional states, judgments and other occurrent intentional states. Oth-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws328">ers are linguistic: words, phrases, sentences, speech acts, utterances, inscrip-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5e">tions. Some would say that logic has its own stock of meaningful units, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30f">which are neither truly mental nor truly linguistic: bound variables, con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbbd">stants, predicate letters, Fregean propositions, well-formed formulas. And </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws450">these meaningful entities come in a variety of sizes as well: word-sized units </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc6d">(lexical units in a language, concepts, predicate letters), sentence-sized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y130 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd8">units (sentences, utterances, speech acts, beliefs, judgments, propositions, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y131 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">well-formed formulas), and larger units such as arguments. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y132 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7de">In one sense, we thus have a number of different types of “semantic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fc ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d5">units,” differing in compositional size and in whether they are mental, lin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fd ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws527">guistic, or abstractly logical. But we might also ask whether one of these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fe ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10">types of units is <span class="ff4c ws0">fundamental</span>. Discussions of this topic generally list either </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ff ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c7">two or three candidate answers. Perhaps most common is a two-way divi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y300 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">sion between the options of atomism and holism: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycaf ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws935">Semantic atomism locates meaning at the level of individual words (the meaning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycb0 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc6e">of each word is <span class="ff4c ws0">in</span> it); semantic holism locates meaning at a broader level, ranging </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycb1 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc6f">from an indefinite network of linked units to an entire language. (Engler 2011, 266) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycb2 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws636">The tradition of formal semantics has been resolutely atomistic, in the sense that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y96 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc70">assignment of a semantic interpretant to one element (say, a proper name) is taken </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycb3 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc71">to be intelligible independently of the assignment of semantic interpretants to any </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycb4 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc72">other elements (for instance, predicates or other proper names). One does not need </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 ycb5 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc73">to know anything about what other dots represent, or what blue wavy lines repre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b2 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc74">sent, in order to understand that a particular dot stands for Cleveland on a map. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b3 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsbdf">The task of formal semantics is a bottom-up one of explaining how semantically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b4 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws62f">relevant whatsits can systematically be assigned to complex expressions, given that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b5 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc75">they have already been assigned to simple ones. Atomism adds that the assignments </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
