<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf1e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="1e"><div class="pc pc1e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x16 h5 y1ba ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y2a9 ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2aa ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x2a h5 y1f0 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x80 h5 y2ab ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x85 h5 y2ac ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y2ad ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ae ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x61 h5 y2af ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa3 h5 y2b0 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">24 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 2 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bb">architecture at all. A second type of threat comes from concerns that con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws186">cepts, intentional states, and inference cannot cleanly be separated from a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90">broader notion of <span class="ffe ws0">understanding</span> that includes a great deal that cannot be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">explained within the framework of the three-tiered picture. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y1ae ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">Eliminativism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bc">Some philosophers and psychologists (a minority within both professions), </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bd">called “eliminativists,” completely deny some portion of the three-tiered </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2be">picture. For example, some claim that there are actually no concepts (Mach-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2bf">ery 2009, e.g., is sometimes characterized in this fashion), and others that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15a">there are no beliefs (Churchland 1981; Stich 1983). Sometimes such claims </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12">turn out on closer inspection to be more modest than they might initially </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c0">sound. Machery’<span class="_ _2"></span>s <span class="_ _34"></span><span class="ffe">Doing without Concepts<span class="ffc ls11 ws2c1">, for example, is really claiming </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c2">that the various rival theories of concepts describe separate phenomena </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c3">that cannot be accommodated within a single theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. It is not really the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c4">eliminativist proposal the title might suggest, but a <span class="ffe ws0">pluralist</span><span class="ls12 ws2c5"> proposal. </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws117">Churchland’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s claim that intentional states are “theoretical posits” of what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c6">he deems to be a failed theory does not argue that we never make judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws25">ments with propositional content, but argues that intentional psychology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws234">viewed as a theory that provides causal explanations of behavior<span class="_ _2"></span>, is a stag-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws162">nant research program that even at its best would explain only a limited </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c7">range of behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. These criticisms are indeed responding to the kind of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c8">characterization given to intentional psychology by Fodor<span class="_ _2"></span>, and they raise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19a">real (if controversial) questions about its explanatory scope and success. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c9">they leave unaddressed the larger question of whether intentional states are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">an important structural feature of cognitive architecture (Horst 1995). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y16f ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">Connectionism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ca">Connectionism, which treats cognition as emerging through dynamic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cb">processes that take place in interconnected layers of neuronlike nodes, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a0">involves a very different proposal about cognitive architecture (Rumelhart </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cc">and McClelland 1986; Churchland and Sejnowski 1989; Ramsey<span class="_ _2d"></span>, Stich, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13b">Rumelhart 1991). It is controversial (among friends and foes alike) whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cd">it should be called a “<span class="ffe ws0">cognitive</span> architecture,” as some writers reserve the word </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ce">‘cognitive’ for states, processes, and architectures that operate on units with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cf">representational content (e.g., Pylyshyn 1991), while others apply it more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d0">broadly to subcognitive implementations of cognitive states and processes, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d1">or even to anything that involves information processing, even early pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">cessing of perceptual information. (Marr’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s [1982] book on vision, after all, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d2">is generally regarded as a seminal work in <span class="ffe ws0">cognitive</span><span class="ls11 ws2d3"> science.) Connectionist </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
