<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf12c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="12c"><div class="pc pc12c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _15d"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y26d ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3ef ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x6c h4 y3f9 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yadc ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _157"> </span> <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ls59"> <span class="_ _15e"> </span><span class="ls0"> <span class="_ _b4"> </span> <span class="_ _51"> </span> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x36 h5 yd16 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">312 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>16 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws189">The semantic value of the concept <span class="fs5 ls19 ws0">DOG</span> commits us to take “dogs are ani-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cc">mals” to be true and licenses inferences from “x is a dog” to “x is an ani-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25d">mal.” It likewise commits us to take “dogs are vegetables” to be false and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7a3">incurs no commitment about the truth of “dogs are Pope Francis’<span class="_ _2"></span>s favor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc88">ite type of animal.” But the meanings of all three sentences are built up, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b7">in the same way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, from the semantic values of their constituents and their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws180">respective syntactic structures. The difference between atomists, on the one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws811">hand, and holists and molecularists, on the other<span class="_ _2"></span>, is not (usually) about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc89">whether sentence-sized units get their meanings compositionally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws162">about whether (or in what cases) epistemic and inferential commitments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7ff">are a consequence of something that word-sized units have in their own </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79c">right, or whether word-sized units have such semantic properties because </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of epistemic and inferential commitments. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45d">A more stringent notion of semantic atomism adds the additional condi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89e">tion that the semantic value of one word-sized unit cannot depend on its </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">relation even to other word-sized units: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3ef ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc8a">Semantic atomists hold that the meaning of any representation (linguistic, men-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f3 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsb19">tal, or otherwise) is not determined by the meaning of any other representation. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f4 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc8b">Historically, Anglo-American philosophers in the eighteenth and nineteenth cen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f5 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1a3">turies thought that an idea of an X was about X’s in virtue of this idea’s physically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f6 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws980">resembling X’s. Resemblance theories are no longer thought viable, but a number </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f7 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc8c">of contemporary semantic atomists still believe that the basic semantic relation is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f8 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc8d">between a concept and the things to which it applies, and not one among concepts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f9 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">themselves. (Lepore 1999, 829) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yadc ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4de">By this criterion, if <span class="fs5 ls19 ws0">BACHELOR <span class="_ _2f"></span></span><span class="ff4c ws0">includes</span> other concepts (<span class="fs5 ls19 ws0">MAN</span> and <span class="fs5 ls19 ws0">UNMARRIED</span><span class="ls18 wsba9">), the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd16 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29e">concept </div><div class="t m0 x105 h5 y79b ff4a fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">BACHELOR<span class="fs2 ls7 ws53f"> is not a semantic atom. The older definitional approach </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd17 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc8e">to semantics claimed that we define many and perhaps most concepts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd18 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c6">in terms of simpler atomic concepts; and for such a theory to get off the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd19 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b1">ground, it had to assume that there must be some concepts that are atomic. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd1a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">The question, of course, was what sorts of concepts could really be atomic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd1b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35f">in this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. One answer<span class="_ _2e"></span>, explored by the British empiricists and some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd1c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c0">the early logical positivists, was that the best candidates would have to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd1d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40">be something like Locke’<span class="_ _2"></span>s simple ideas of sensation—or<span class="_ _2"></span>, in more recent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd1e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57d">formulations, sense data or qualia. Other recent atomisms have attempted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd1f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws7ec">to ground semantic atoms in causal and informational relations between a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd20 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8f7">thinker and an object or class of objects. According to one type of causal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd21 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, a concept C means X because Cs are reliably caused by Xs (Fodor </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd22 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51d">1987). In another type of causal theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, C means X because Cs were caused </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd23 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsbb9">by Xs in a privileged reference-fixing period (Kripke 1980). In Dretske’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
