<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf12e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="12e"><div class="pc pc12e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x82 h5 y222 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 yd32 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x88 h5 y13f ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e5"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y69f ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _87"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xea h5 y5fa ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x75 h5 yc9e ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x84 h5 y7ca ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 yd33 ff4b fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd34 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yd35 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">314 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>16 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f5">with the first two theses without reference to the further issues posed by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">A3, I will use the label ‘atomism’ to refer to views that embrace A1 and A2. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws337">From the cognitive pluralist’<span class="_ _2"></span>s standpoint, the problem with semantic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws183">atomism is that it has no way of accounting for the constitutive connec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws493">tions within a model between concepts, beliefs, inferential dispositions, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws752">and capacities for perception and action. A change in my understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws499">of how a chess bishop is permitted to move <span class="ff4c ws0">is</span><span class="ls11 ws5e9"> a change in my concept of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad0">a chess bishop as well. This is similar to familiar holist arguments against </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36d">atomism, with the important difference that the cognitive pluralist holds </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cc">that there is a principled difference between the situations one finds <span class="ff4c ws0">within </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">a model and <span class="ff4c">outside</span> or <span class="ff4c">between</span><span class="ls12 ws3c"> models. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f0">Additionally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the cognitive pluralist is <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff4c ws0">not<span class="ff4a ls11 ws58b"> required to hold either that </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws129">the atomist story has nothing right or that there cannot be concepts about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws91e">which it tells the best story<span class="_ _2"></span>. What the cognitive pluralist needs to insist on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20a">is that, <span class="ff4c">in the case of model-based understanding</span><span class="ls11 ws27">, the semantics of a concept </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws81e">must be constitutively linked to those of other concepts, and to the rules, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws165">representational system, and inferential commitments of the model. It is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws286">compatible with this idea that there are <span class="ff4c ws0">also</span><span class="ls11 ws7b3"> cases where we have concepts </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws953">that are not grounded in this way in models. Indeed, I think that, in cer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e4">tain learning contexts, concepts can be acquired (at least initially) without </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb55">being associated with a well-formed model. When we encounter a new kind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57">of thing without yet having any concrete understanding of it, the concept </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsc93">may well take a form very like a conceptual atom. And when we learn a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws636">concept through a verbal definition, it may have constitutive dependencies </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa59">on the other concepts through which it is defined but not yet be embed-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b1">ded in a model. I tend to expect that these are primarily characteristics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55c">of learning processes that normally lead toward embeddedness in one or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws878">more models, but this is an empirical hypothesis that would need careful </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">exploration. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y219 ff4b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">Holism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc94">Conceptual holism is the thesis that all our concepts are constitutively </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6bb">interdefined, such that a change to any one of them would amount to a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa0a">change in all of them. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, holist theses are generally not confined </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f4">to semantics. The holism found in Quine (1951) and Davidson (1967), for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7d">example, posits constitutive interconnections between all of a person’<span class="_ _2d"></span>s con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">cepts, beliefs, and inferential commitments. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws615">A model-based cognitive pluralism also posits constitutive interconnec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8b">tions between concepts, beliefs, and inferential commitments and so has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws122">an important resemblance to holism. The difference is in scope. The holist </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
