<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf12f" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="12f"><div class="pc pc12f w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x53 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x99 h5 y336 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x27 h5 y292 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y293 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y6b6 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5f h5 y3e8 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf9 h5 y26f ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5b h5 y9c9 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7b h5 y72e ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbe h5 ya66 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _129"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7e h5 y6b8 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xae h5 y9d7 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">315 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c7">holds that such constitutive interrelations are found between <span class="ff4c ws0">all</span><span class="ls12 wsa68"> concepts, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37e">beliefs, and inferential commitments. The cognitive pluralist finds them </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44c">only (or <span class="ff4c ws0">chiefly</span>) within the concepts, beliefs, and inferential commitments </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws777">of a model. According to holists, the network relevant to the semantics of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws445">concept is completely <span class="ff4c ws0">global</span>. According to cognitive pluralists, it a mental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">model. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y106 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws471">Distinguishing two types of holist claims will help here. The first is that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws95b">anything, from any domain of understanding (including things we do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws648">yet understand and are completely unaware of), could in principle prove </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2f">to be relevant to any other concept, belief, or inferential commitment, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d1">hence a change to any unit anywhere could require adjustments anywhere </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d1">else. The cognitive pluralist can accept this as a “for all we know” kind of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">claim: I cannot rule out in advance the possibility that some change in my </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97b">understanding of physics might force me to rethink how I understand some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws984">other domain like chess, dining, or ethics. It may seem unlikely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, as I cannot </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc95">see how it could do so. But this is in part because I cannot anticipate what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31d">change in my understanding in physics might someday come along that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7af">would require such adjustments; and for this reason, I cannot definitively </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">say in advance what other areas of understanding are insulated from it. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y113 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscb">The second and stronger type of holist thesis is that each concept, belief, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc4c">and inferential commitment is <span class="ff4c ws0">constitutively</span><span class="ls11 wsc92"> bound up with every other<span class="_ _2"></span>, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws419">so that any change is <span class="ff4c">eo ipso</span> a change to everything else in the system. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23b">Cognitive pluralism differs from such a <span class="ff4c ws0">constitutive</span><span class="ls11 ws331"> holism in precisely the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb65">areas where constitutive holism seems most vulnerable. It seems correct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48b">to say that a change in meaning, belief, or inferential commitments has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa13">ramifications to other concepts, beliefs, and inferential commitments, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa3">those ramifications have limits. If I change my understanding of, say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws706">a knight moves in chess, this clearly has constitutive implications for how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c1">I need to adjust my understanding of the concept </div><div class="t m0 xcd h5 y79e ff4a fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">CHESS_KNIGHT<span class="fs2 ls12 wsfd"> and other </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd36 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws678">aspects of my understanding of chess. But it does not follow that I need to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd37 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc95">similarly adjust my understanding of mechanics or of restaurant etiquette. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd38 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3a2">Similarly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, a transition from classical to relativistic mechanics involves a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd39 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws612">change in concepts of </div><div class="t m0 x102 h5 yb38 ff4a fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">MASS<span class="fs2 ls7 ws612"> and </span>SP<span class="_ _2"></span>ACE<span class="fs2 ls7 ws612"> and changes in beliefs and inferen-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd3a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7cb">tial commitments <span class="ff4c">within the domain of mechanics</span><span class="ls11 ws1ca">, but it need not have the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd3b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws166">slightest impact on my understanding of chess or the semantics of a con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd3c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14c">cept like </div><div class="t m0 xf8 h5 y127 ff4a fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">GRANDMOTHER<span class="fs2 ls7 ws14c">. What cognitive pluralism adds to this commonsense </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y13c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws418">insight is a theory of why it might be correct: namely<span class="_ _2"></span>, that there is a kind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y13d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ef">of psychological unit (a mental model) distinct from concepts, beliefs, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y13e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws286">inferences, which sets the bounds on how far such changes should ramify<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd3d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57e">A model-based cognitive pluralism implies that at least some portion of </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
