<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf130" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="130"><div class="pc pc130 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y352 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x107 h5 y97c ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y770 ff4b fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y408 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb4d ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _162"> </span> <span class="_ _163"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7e h5 y46f ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a4"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x101 h5 y710 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y470 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc h5 yd3e ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">316 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>16 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws613">conceptual semantics is best described by a molecularist picture, but cogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws614">tive pluralism goes beyond a mere assertion of semantic molecularism in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">providing a theoretical account of what makes it true. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9b">In short, holism gets some things right: (1) some changes in meaning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws810">do or ought to constitute changes in other concepts and in belief and vice </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a0">versa, and (2) what we believe is in some ways constitutively tied into the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22b">semantics of the terms we use. But holism errs in being a completely global </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws207">and ecumenical thesis. Not all changes in belief and meaning have the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">same sorts of implications for every other element of a person’<span class="_ _2"></span>s epistemic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">space, and holism lacks the resources to deal with the differences. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y207 ff4b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">16.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">The Multiple Lives of Concepts </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51a">Our discussions thus far might suggest a particular view of concepts and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc96">their relationship to models. If a concept used within a model—such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd3f ff4a fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">CHESS_KNIGHT<span class="fs2 ls7 ws581"> or the concept </span>MASS<span class="fs2 ls7 ws581"> used in a relativistic model of gravitation— </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd40 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32d">is constitutively interdefined with the other concepts used in the model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd41 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws764">and with the model’<span class="_ _2"></span>s rules and representational system, this seems to sug-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd42 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws227">gest that each concept resides within a single model. It might additionally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd43 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87f">be used in linguistic inferences that combine concepts drawn from differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd44 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb4e">ent models, and there may be associations between it and concepts drawn </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd45 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws775">from other models, but these are not <span class="ff4c ws0">constitutive</span> of <span class="ff4c">what concept it is</span><span class="ls12 ws2d4">. I will </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd46 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscd">refer to this thesis that each concept resides in a single model as the <span class="ff4c ws0">residen-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd47 ff4c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tial<span class="ff4a ls11 ws3d"> view of concepts. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yd48 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc97">If we accept the larger thesis that models form tightly integrated units, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd49 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b2">wherein concepts and inferential commitments are constitutively intercon-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd4a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws88f">nected, this might recommend the residential view of concepts. But there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd4b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34c">are also reasons to suspect that the residential view cannot be correct, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd4c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws367">at least that it cannot be the full story about concepts. On the one hand, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd4d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f7">there is reason to think that some concepts—or something closely akin to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd4e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws810">concepts—do not need to be situated in models at all but play a role more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd4f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e8">directly connected to grouping stimuli into categories. Much of the litera-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd50 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c1">ture on concepts in psychology is primarily about categorization, and it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd51 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws955">important to examine the relationship between the idea that concepts are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd52 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">tools for categorization and the residential view<span class="_ _2d"></span>. On the other hand, there </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd53 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25d">is reason to think that a single concept can play a role in more than one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd54 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws121">model. At the least, we frequently use the same <span class="ff4c ws0">word</span> in expressions of judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd55 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa68">ments and inferences grounded in multiple models, and at first glance the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd56 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76f">situation often looks not like a case of simple homonymy but like a single </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd57 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">concept straddling several models. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
