<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf131" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="131"><div class="pc pc131 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa0 h5 y26c ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x16 h5 y7c3 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d2"> </span><span class="ls7"> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y26e ff4b fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y161 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3e8 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _105"> </span> <span class="_ _d6"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x5c h5 yfe ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e9 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b2 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xb8 h4 yd58 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 yda ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">317 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Semantics </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws254">I think that both of these problems are real, and they point to a need </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a8">to go beyond the residential view of concepts without rejecting the idea </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc98">that much of the semantic content of concepts is derived from models in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws702">which they play a role. There is, of course, a certain amount of terminologi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8cd">cal choice involved in deciding what to call “a concept,” and what to call </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws788">by some other name—for example, whether the psychological units used </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b0">for classification in perception are the same sorts of entities as the units </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws559">used in semantically based reasoning and off-line simulation. But whatever </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws446">terminological choices we make, we need to respect the same data. And in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19a">this case, I believe that the best approach is to view concepts as complicated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws664">hybrid entities that must be understood in their relationship to more than </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33e">one kind of psychological system. A model-based semantics is still a <span class="ff4c ws0">part</span><span class="ls5a wsa6c"> of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">that story<span class="_ _2"></span>, but it is not the <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff4c">entire<span class="ff4a"> story<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y20a ff4b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">16.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Concepts without Models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws722">I will explore three reasons to think that concepts can exist without being </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc99">embedded in mental models. First, in psychology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, concepts are often treated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b">primarily as units of categorization. (And while it is often an assumption </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws775">left implicit, what is really central to the discussion is often categorization </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff4c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws915">in perception<span class="ff4a">.) Categorization </span><span class="ws0">can</span><span class="ff4a"> take place without a mental model; and so </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws283">if concepts can be (just) tools for categorization, they need not be embed-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ef">ded in models. Second, in some nonhuman animal species, we might have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws260">reason to be skeptical about the presence of the kinds of models that are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws462">relevant to inferential semantics, but still have reason to think that the ani-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50d">mals have concepts (particularly in the sense of things used in perceptual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7f3">categorization). And third, concept <span class="ff4c ws0">learning</span><span class="ls11 ws8a7"> does not seem to require the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b0">mastery of an associated model. Indeed, the process of learning a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96d">often involves early stages in which we learn to recognize categories of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8bc">objects that will be relevant to the model without our yet having mastered </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">the model. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y173 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37e">In discussions of concepts within psychology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, we find a great deal of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b3">focus on the role of concepts as tools of categorization, particularly among </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws206">proponents of prototype and exemplar theories. Eleanor Rosch, the pioneer </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of the prototype theory of concepts, writes: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b2 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc9a">Two general and basic principles are proposed for the formation of categories. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b3 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc9b">first has to do with the function of category systems and asserts that the task of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b4 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc9c">category systems is to provide maximum information with the least cognitive effort; </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b5 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws57f">the second has to do with the structure of the information so provided and asserts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 yd58 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc9d">that <span class="ff4c">the perceived world</span> comes as structured information rather than as arbitrary or </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
