<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf132" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="132"><div class="pc pc132 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xe4 h4 y232 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8a h4 y233 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb4f ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbc h5 yb54 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yd59 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd5a ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x30 h5 yd5b ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4 h5 yd5c ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yd5d ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x2a h5 yd5e ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6b h5 yd5f ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _60"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xf7 h5 yd60 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _164"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa08">318 Chapter <span class="_ _10b"></span>16 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc79">unpredictable attributes. The maximum information with least cognitive effort is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsc9e">achieved if categories map <span class="ff4c">the perceived world</span><span class="wsc9f"> structure as closely as possible. (Rosch </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">1978/1999, 190; italics mine) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb4f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws200">Rosch’<span class="_ _2"></span>s emphasis on “the perceived world” suggests that a core concern of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb54 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24d">the theory may be more narrowly about categorization <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff4c">in perception<span class="ff4a ls18 ws919">. This </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb55 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc26">is even more clearly evident with exemplar theories, which treat concepts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb56 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsaa9">as being (or involving) stored memory traces of exemplars of a category </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb57 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">(Smith and Medin 1981). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yb58 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws212">Perceptual categorization, or indeed categorization in general, is not the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yb59 ff4c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">only<span class="ff4a ws7e6"> thing a theory of concepts should explain. But it is one important role </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd61 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b5">concepts play in our mental economy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Most theories of categorization in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd62 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsc8">psychology treat the categorization process as one that assigns a category </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd63 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws831">based on <span class="ff4c ws0">features</span>. In classical theories, the features might be thought to pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd64 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsca0">vide necessary and sufficient conditions for the applicability of the concept. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd65 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d3">Prototype and exemplar theories, by contrast, are <span class="ff4c ws0">probabilistic</span><span class="ls11 ws929">: a concept is </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd66 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws329">activated by some matching process involving either a set of prototypical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd67 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37">features or a set of exemplars stored in memory<span class="_ _2"></span>. The process may involve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd68 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws734">a comparison of the stimulus to multiple prototypes or exemplars, and its </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd69 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws399">dynamics may be tuned to activate the concept with the best fit with the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd6a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws801">stimulus. The kinds of inferential relationships that models are supposed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd6b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7c7">underwrite need not figure in this, and it seems clear that mechanisms for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd6c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">categorization could exist that do not require mental models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yd6d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25a">Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, it seems reasonable to suppose that there are types of animal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd6e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77">minds that possess categorizing mechanisms that stand between percep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd6f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8c4">tual inputs and behavioral control <span class="ff4c ws0">without</span><span class="ls11 ws52a"> these being embedded in mental </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd70 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15e">models of content domains. There are useful types of cognition that you </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd71 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws196">can obtain only once you have interposed something like a concept (or<span class="_ _2"></span>, if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd72 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c8">you prefer to restrict that word to humans or other language users or other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd73 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws636">conscious beings, a <span class="ff4c ws0">protoconcept</span> or a <span class="ff4c">feature aggregator</span><span class="ls11 wsbfb">) between the stimulus </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd74 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63a">end and the motor end of the cognitive architecture. Think of it this way: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd75 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws884">the success of a motor response often depends little on what sensory chan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd76 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64d">nel an affordance or object is detected through, and very much on <span class="_ _130"></span><span class="ff4c ls10 ws0">what </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd77 ff4c fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">kind<span class="ff4a wsa48"> of affordance or object is detected, and the </span>state<span class="ff4a ls11 wsc7"> it is in. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, there </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd78 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ea">can be many stimuli that are cues to a single type of affordance (typed rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd79 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws307">tionally) or object (typed “objectively”), and there might be many motor </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd7a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d8">schemas that are useful for responding to the affordance or object. It is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd7b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18e">thus useful for an animal to have in its cognitive architecture a kind of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd7c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18d">element that stands in between perception and motor control, as a kind of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd7d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fe">central clearinghouse for the various sensory and motor schemas that need </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
