<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf135" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="135"><div class="pc pc135 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h2 y231 ff4b fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h4 y234 ff4a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x44 h5 yd99 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _167"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y23a ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x18 h5 yd9a ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yd9b ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">321 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 y231 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">Figure 16.1 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls1f ws6d1">Concepts as feature aggregators. Diagrams of two types of simple cognitive architec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls1f wsbd1">tures. In the first figure, perceptual feature detectors (for features like colored forms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls1f wsca2">and nectar pathways visible on flowers to birds or insects) directly drive motor con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls1f wsca3">trol. In the second figure, a middle layer is interposed, which responds to many fea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls1f wsca4">tures, either individually or in combination, and can drive multiple motor responses. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls1f ws999">This architecture allows an organism to detect the same objects, properties, or affor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y245 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls1f wsca5">dances from multiple distinct cues, and to treat them as equivalent for purposes of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y234 ff4a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls20 ws3c0">behavioral response. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y236 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8ee">residential view would have far more radical consequences. If there are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y246 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39">multiple models of banking institutions—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, architectural models, models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y247 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50f">used by patrons of how to make various kinds of financial transactions, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y248 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws839">economic models used in finance—they would all have to employ distinct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y249 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77d">concepts, all expressed by the English word ‘bank’. This might be attrac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1df">tive from the standpoint of a molecularist inferential semantics; the uses </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ef">associated with different models yield different types of inferences. But it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfb">also seems rather counterintuitive, and it presents a problem of how we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws719">know (or at least why we have the sense that) we are talking about the same </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws347">institutions when we are thinking about them through different models. It </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws750">cannot <span class="ff4c ws0">merely</span> be that we use the same <span class="ff4c ws0">word</span><span class="ls11 ws7d8">, because a single word can be </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y250 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws286">used to talk about distinct classes of things, like a financial institution and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y251 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ab">the side of a riverbed, and in those sorts of cases we have no similar tempta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y252 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion to suppose that there is only a single concept. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y253 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws667">Consider some other examples. There are no doubt a number of distinct </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y254 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d">models that deal with cows. People who herd cattle probably have mental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y255 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws374">models of how cattle roam about singly and in groups and how to interact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y256 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsff">with them to cajole them into going where the herder wishes them to go. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y257 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws508">Cattle breeders have mental models of different heritable traits of cows and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y258 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws283">how they can be combined through selective breeding. W<span class="_ _2e"></span>ildlife ecologists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y259 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws334">dealing with open ranges have ecological models involving cattle and their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y25a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws535">impact on particular environments, and so on. They all use the word ‘cow’ </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y25b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsca6">to talk about the same class of things, and it takes no special mental gym-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y25c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws285">nastics to recognize that it is the same class of things that is understood, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y25d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ea">in different ways, through the different models. The natural conclusion to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y25e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a0">draw would seem to be that there is a single concept, </div><div class="t m0 xfd h5 yc54 ff4a fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">COW<span class="fs2 ls11 ws26b">, that appears in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd9c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">many models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yd9d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsca7">A slightly more difficult case involves theory difference and theory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd9e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws711">change. Classical and relativistic mechanics both employ the word ‘mass’, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yd9f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws321">though the constitutive implications of the word differ importantly in the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
