<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf1f" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="1f"><div class="pc pc1f w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xa4 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x42 h5 y200 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7e h5 y201 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _6a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x55 h5 y1ae ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x28 h5 y2b1 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x31 h5 y2b2 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x37 h5 y2b3 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y2b4 ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2b5 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x49 h5 y2b6 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y272 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3c h5 y2b7 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf h5 y2b8 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">25 <span class="_ _1e"></span>A Standard Philosophical View of Cognitive Architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d4">accounts often <span class="ffe ws0">do</span> have their own characterizations of concepts and inten-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d5">tional states—for example, as activation patterns across nodes in intermedi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d6">ate hidden layers. This approach actually strikes me as being right headed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d7">as an account of <span class="ffe ws0">judgments</span> (which are transient mental events) as well as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d8">concepts. (It is only when concepts are <span class="ffe ws0">activated</span> or <span class="ffe ws0">applied</span><span class="ls11 ws19"> that we should </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17a">expect an occurrent state. The notion of <span class="ffe ws0">having</span><span class="ls11 ws2d9"> a concept or dispositional </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2da">belief need not require a persistent representation corresponding to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c8">concept or belief.) One can be a connectionist and disavow concepts and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2db">judgments altogether; but often the real issues are about how intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2dc">phenomena are <span class="ffe ws0">implemented</span> and whether the dynamic processes that drive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2dd">thinking operate <span class="ffe ws0">over</span> intentional states or merely sometimes have them as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">their inputs and outputs. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y209 ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Embodied Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2de">Advocates of ecological, embodied, and enactive approaches to cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2df">have likewise positioned their views in opposition to those based around </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e0">representational intentional states.</div><div class="t m0 x17 h8 y76 ffc fs4 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">3</div><div class="t m0 x49 h5 y2b9 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws150"> The core thesis of these views is that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ba ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e1">cognition is not simply something that takes place within the mind or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2bb ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e2">brain but a kind of skilled practical engagement with the world. Among </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2bc ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e3">the sources of this relatively new approach to the mind are the twentieth-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2bd ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf2">century philosopher Martin Heidegger’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1927/1996) claim that intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2be ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e4">states are grounded in and dependent on deeper capacities for skilled bodily </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2bf ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e5">activity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and the ecological psychologist J. J. Gibson’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1977) claim that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c0 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e6">organisms perceive and respond directly to affordances (structures in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c1 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e7">world that provide something to the organism or allow it to do something), </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c2 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws2e8">rather than inferring and representing them on the basis of brute sensory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c3 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e9">data. Cognition is viewed as a dynamic process that encompasses not only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c4 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">the mind or brain, or even the whole embodied organism, but a dynami-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c5 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41">cally coupled system of interactions between organism and environment </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c6 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">(Silberstein and Chemero 2011; Thompson 2007). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2c7 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ea">Beyond the provocative thesis that cognition, and even “the mind,” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c8 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2eb">is not just “in the head,” writers who embrace ecological, embodied, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2c9 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws164">enactive theories of cognition make several additional claims of different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ca ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ec">degrees of strength. The mildest of these is that there are a variety of pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2cb ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ed">cesses that do not look much like judgments and inferences that none-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2cc ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ee">theless play essential roles in intelligent interaction with the world and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2cd ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ef">indeed in sense making. This does not directly threaten commitments to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ce ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f0">a cognitive architecture that <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ffe ws0">includes<span class="ffc ls11 ws2f1"> concepts, judgments, and inferences, </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2cf ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15b">but raises a concern, which I explore further in the next section, that this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2d0 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f2">is a seriously <span class="ffe ws0">incomplete</span> description of cognitive architecture, and raises </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
