<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf137" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="137"><div class="pc pc137 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y1a0 ff4b fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ydb8 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 ydb9 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 ydba ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb1 h5 ydbb ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x28 h5 y1ac ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _16b"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x23 h5 y1ad ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x19 h5 ydbc ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x43 h5 ydbd ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xf4 h5 ydbe ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">323 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa26">tracking particular individuals, kinds, properties, relations, and processes. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43a">The second involves distinguishing two ways of typing concepts: by their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a6">semantic properties and as psychological continuants in the mind of an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">individual. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y1ae ff4b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Intension and Ostension </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbf9">First, the distinction between intensional and ostensive components. It is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c7">easier to find a point of entry by considering our concepts of individu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscaa">als rather than our concepts of kinds, properties, relations, or processes. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws181">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e think of individuals as having enduring properties and properties that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">change over time. Being able to think about an individual person or object </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36a">at all requires the ability to think of it as one and the same thing despite the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws192">constant changes in variable properties: Socrates is first sitting then stand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa44">ing, asleep then chatting in the Agora, bearded and then newly shaven. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5b4">The boundary between “enduring” and “changing” properties is a bit hazy<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16c">though: we may think of a person’<span class="_ _2"></span>s physiognomy and personality as rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws82d">tively stable things, but both in fact change substantially throughout the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws461">life cycle and can undergo rapid and dramatic changes as well. Just <span class="ff4c ws0">what </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws542">can change without forcing us to conclude that the individual we knew </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa24">is no longer present seems somewhat open-ended, a fact reflected in rival </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa07">theories of personal identity and of the identity conditions of objects, as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 wsb3a">well as in the problems involved in deciding when an embryo becomes a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">human person. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y212 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb44">The simplest and perhaps the only explanation for this would seem to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74a">that concepts of individuals (whether persons or objects) involve multiple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8af">components. Some of these involve attribution of properties, and it may be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14c">that there is an important psychological difference in the way we represent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86c">properties we regard as enduring (perhaps even assumed to be part of an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34f">essence) and those that are evanescent. But in addition to these there seems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws918">to have to be a component that is more <span class="ff4c ws0">ostensive</span>—one that has the func-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b2">tion of tracking a particular individual through changes. And the “changes” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws868">we need to track through are not only real changes in the individual but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws562">changes in our beliefs <span class="ff4c ws0">about</span> that individual. I see Socrates and take <span class="ff4c ws0">him</span><span class="ls1e ws352"> to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc95">be a Spartan but then change my mind and decide <span class="ff4c ws0">he</span><span class="ls11 ws859"> is an Athenian. I see </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws766">something on the path and take <span class="ff4c ws0">it</span> to be a rock until it moves and I see it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws336">from a different angle and conclude that <span class="ff4c ws0">it</span><span class="ls11 ws679"> is some kind of animal. I do </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws278">not simply first think, “There is a Spartan,” and then deny that and think, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws810">“There is an Athenian,” or first think, “There is a rock” and then “There is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsab">an animal.” I am not simply registering (and changing my mind about) the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws810">presence of property-instances; I am tracking <span class="ff4c">one individual</span><span class="ls11 ws123"> throughout, to </span></div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
