<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf141" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="141"><div class="pc pc141 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7 h5 yfd ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xfe h5 y556 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y559 ff4b fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _16"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y473 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y53e ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3f h5 y9ca ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x75 h5 y6b7 ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y72a ff4a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc4 h2 ya5 ff4b fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">333 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism and Semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws164">language-like cognition. Their semantic properties are determined not by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6db">their nature as language-like units but by the fact that they are also constit-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b4">uents of concepts. Language and language-like thinking have CLs as their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7dc">constituents, but because these are bound to CMs as conceptual structures, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5db">language incorporates or ties into model-based semantics as well. This dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb34">tinction between what is a <span class="ff4c ws0">constituent</span><span class="ls11 ws574"> of language and what is incorporated </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws86">into it is quite useful, as it provides some insight into how there can be for-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23d">mal languages without semantic properties (CLs that are not tied to models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws705">or feature aggregators), and how we are capable of making syntactically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">based inferences even without fully grasping the relevant concepts. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y207 ff4b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">16.7 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Possible Implications for Disputes about Concepts and Semantics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws583">What I have proposed in the previous section should be viewed as some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws884">thing on the order of a schematic outline of a theory of conceptual seman-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ba">tics. It is not quite so concrete as a theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, but it enumerates some of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws547">components that might need to go into a theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, and explores some basic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">suggestions for how they might be related. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y166 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws810">The proposal for looking forward involves a reframing of how we think </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15a">about philosophical debates in semantics. Debates about semantic theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws366">are too often framed as either-or debates between accounts that each focus </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72c">on different, but arguably equally legitimate, features and concerns: sense, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc6">reference, truth, or inferential commitments; internalism versus exter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc7">nalism; intension versus extension; atomism versus holism. There have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12b">been some attempts to move beyond this, such as the two-factor accounts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ee">proposed by Field (1977) and Block (1986). My suggestion is to broaden </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67d">this approach to recognize the multiple factors that not only <span class="ff4c ws0">are</span><span class="ls12 ws2e8"> a part of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b0">semantic competence but would <span class="ff4c">have to be</span><span class="ls11 ws218"> present in any organism that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55">possesses the kinds of cognitive capacities that human beings possess, even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa2f">if that means that they cannot all be accommodated in a compact and tidy </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">account. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y173 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wscc8">Conceptual atomists and direct-reference theorists have something right. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71e">There is an element of a concept whose function is to track individuals, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc98">kinds, properties, relations, or processes (depending on what kind of con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54b">cept it is): an ostensive element akin to what Husserl called the “pure x.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws478">Just as was the case with the triangulation of individuals through different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55a">ways of thinking about them, so it is crucially important for us to be able </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8a">to have a way of thinking about “the same thing” through changes in our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws148">understanding of it, and thus it seems quite necessary that concepts have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff4a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws227">such an element. In my view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, however<span class="_ _2e"></span>, the ostensive tracking relationship </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
