<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf21" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="21"><div class="pc pc21 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x61 h5 y2d7 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2d8 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa6 h5 y2d9 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y2d6 ffd fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2da ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xa7 h5 y2db ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">27 <span class="_ _1e"></span>A Standard Philosophical View of Cognitive Architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws121">different processes seem to operate in very different ways from one another </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">as well. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">None of this is incompatible with the standard view’<span class="_ _2"></span>s supplying a useful </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30f">framework for describing the aspects of our mental life that philosophers </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws310">have cared most about, which arguably make up a substantial portion of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws311">what is distinctive of <span class="ffe ws0">human</span> minds. But it does raise the question of how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2db">“open” an architecture it is: whether it is relatively self-contained or can-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws312">not really be separated from other aspects of the mind. Perhaps the old-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws313">est version of this worry in philosophy concerns the relationship between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws314">intentionality and perception. Any epistemological theory faces the ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws315">tion of how sensation and perception provide warrant for beliefs. If we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws316">view perception wholly in nonintentional terms, a problem arises for how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws317">perceptual information can be translated into a form that provides warrant. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25">Conversely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, if it has some element of intentionality within it, the realm of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws318">meanings and reasons extends beyond sentence-like intentional states such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws319">as judgments. There are similarly old problems about semantics, such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31a">whether intentional states include “nonconceptual content,” and to what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31b">extent concepts are dependent on (perhaps even constructions out of) sen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">sations or perceptions. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y113 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31c">A slightly different sort of issue is occasioned by psychological theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f6">claiming that there are undisputedly intentional phenomena that none-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31d">theless seem to be segregated from the rest of our thinking: for example, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31e">special-purpose systems for detecting danger<span class="_ _2"></span>, contagion, or sexual cues, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31f">and special forms of reasoning that are applied only in social cognition. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws320">Evolutionary psychologists suggest that these are isolated cognitive pheno-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws321">typic traits that may well have their own neural substrates, adaptive histo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws322">ries, and modes of representation and inference. If this implies that they are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13d">separate parts of the mind that work on independent principles, we would </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws193">need to posit a much more complicated kind of cognitive architecture. In </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws323">chapter 3, I explore an influential strategy for insulating a domain of “cen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25e">tral cognition,” characterized by the standard view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, from threats stemming </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">from other mental “modules.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y21c ffd fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">Understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27c">A related concern can be raised that does not depend on the assumption </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws324">that different parts of our mental lives are a result of separate <span class="ffe ws0">neural</span><span class="ls18 ws325"> systems </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc">or independent evolutionary adaptations. This is the concern that under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws326">standing itself involves more than just beliefs or judgments and the kinds of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws327">inferences found in explicit argumentation. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e speak of “understanding” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws316">things such as Newtonian mechanics, consequentialist ethics, the game of </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
