<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf22" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="22"><div class="pc pc22 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x9b h5 y1c3 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _6c"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x2 h5 y2dc ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2dd ffc fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x28 h4 y2de ffc fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2df ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2e0 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x65 h5 y2e1 ffc fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ffd fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">28 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 2 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws328">chess, the dynamics of free markets, and the Japanese tea ceremony<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws329">standing of any such domain is clearly not something that can be carved </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32a">off from the realm of meaning and reasons. It involves an interrelated set </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws223">of concepts, beliefs, and semantic, inferential, and practical capacities con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32b">cerning a particular domain of experience. But this seems to go beyond </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32a">the standard view in two ways. First, understanding also involves abilities </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32c">to <span class="ffe ws0">recognize</span> events and situations in terms of those concepts, and to <span class="ffe ws0">act </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws184">in skilled ways within those domains. Second, it at least initially looks as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21">though understanding needs to be approached in a different way from con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfd">cepts, beliefs, and inferences: as something whose basic units are <span class="ffe ls18 ws0">domain </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ffe fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">sized<span class="ffc wsad">, where a “domain” is something like the game of chess or the world as </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">described by Newtonian mechanics. As Catherine Elgin notes: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2dd ffc fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws32d">We understand rules and reasons, actions and passions, objectives and obstacles, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2e2 ffc fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws32e">techniques and tools, forms, functions, and fictions, as well as facts. We also un-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2e3 ffc fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws32f">derstand pictures, words, equations, and patterns. Ordinarily these are not isolated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2e4 ffc fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws330">accomplishments; they coalesce into an understanding of a subject, discipline, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y2de ffc fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">field of study. (Elgin 1996, 123) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2df ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19b">The idea that a content domain might itself be a fundamental unit for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2e5 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws331">understanding was developed most influentially in philosophy of science, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2e6 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws332">beginning in the 1960s, as the idea that scientific theories are not simply </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2e7 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws333">combinations of statements or beliefs that can be specified independently of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2e8 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws334">one another; rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, the concepts and law claims that make up a theory are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2e9 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws196">constitutively interdefined, and it is the entire theory that is confirmed or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ea ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws335">disconfirmed as a unit by empirical evidence. Theories are integral seman-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2eb ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws336">tic and epistemic units and indeed are in some sense more fundamental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ec ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws337">semantic and epistemic units than the concepts or claims they employ<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ed ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d8">as the concepts gain their meaning and the claims their warrant from the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ee ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws338">larger unit of the theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, not the other way around. As a consequence, we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ef ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15a">do not fully understand concepts, claims, beliefs, judgments, or the special </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f0 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2be">forms of reasoning distinctive of theories if we do not take this other type of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f1 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws339">unit into account. And if that is the case, theory-sized units turn out to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f2 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ab">eminently relevant to the concerns of epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, semantics, and truth </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f3 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">theory as well. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2f4 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33a">Just how broad an implication we should draw from this depends on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f5 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33b">whether such features are unique to scientific theories, or whether they are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f6 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws33c">a more general characteristic of understanding. In chapter 4, I present a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f7 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33d">case for the more general thesis that understanding is organized in mental </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f8 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33e">models of content domains, and this thesis is further developed, under the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2f9 ffc fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">name of cognitive pluralism, in chapter 5. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
