<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf23" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="23"><div class="pc pc23 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2fa fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7f h5 y2fb fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff10 fs0 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ls13"> <span class="_ _30"></span><span class="ls0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ydf ff10 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span>Chapter <span class="_ _31"> </span>3 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ye0 ff10 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ws33f">Central and Modular Cognition <span class="_ _6d"></span><span class="ws0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff10 fs0 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">3 <span class="_ _15"> </span>Central and Modular Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws340">In the previous chapter<span class="_ _2"></span>, I claimed that mainstream theories about think-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y128 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66">ing tend to treat the mind as a single language-like medium with units of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y129 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws341">three distinctive sizes, related to one another compositionally: word-sized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws342">concepts, sentence-sized intentional states (particularly beliefs or judg-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws343">ments), and larger discourse-sized units (particularly deductive arguments). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws344">Theories in a number of core areas of philosophy—epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, seman-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws345">tics, truth theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, and logic—are at least tacitly committed to this three-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1db">tiered picture, though each area has its rival theories about matters such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26b">what makes beliefs warranted, how concepts obtain their semantic values, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y130 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws346">what relationship between thoughts and the world is needed for beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y131 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws276">to be true, and what are the most appropriate logical formalization(s) of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y132 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ad">reasoning. In ordinary life, we often explain people’<span class="_ _2"></span>s behavior in terms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fc fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72">their beliefs, desires, and other intentional states and how they reason on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fd fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws347">the basis of these. And influential mainstream projects in cognitive science </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fe fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws348">have attempted to provide more explicit and exacting theories of such pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ff fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">cesses through formal and computational models. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y300 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws349">While philosophers have often managed to ignore the fact that there is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y301 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34a">also much more going on in mind and brain than intentional states and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y302 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34b">processes, this option is hardly available within the cognitive sciences. Even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y303 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34c">if we were to stipulate that only mental states involving concepts, inten-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y304 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34d">tionality<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and reasoning are to be called “cognitive,” these still make up </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y305 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34e">only a part of what goes on within some larger architecture that is needed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y306 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34f">to account for things such as sensation, perception, motor control, proprio-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y307 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws350">ception, and other topics studied in the cognitive sciences. And this raises </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y308 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws351">the question of whether<span class="_ _2"></span>, even in this narrow sense of the cognitive, a <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">cogni-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y309 ff11 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tive<span class="fff ws352"> architecture can really be specified in a fashion that is independent of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws353">the rest. Alternatively<span class="_ _2d"></span>, if we use the word ‘cognitive’ more broadly<span class="_ _2"></span>, can the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws354">architecture for what we might call “the space of meaning and reasons” be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">specified independently of a broader cognitive architecture? </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
