<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf27" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="27"><div class="pc pc27 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xac h5 y336 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4b h5 y200 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y337 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x26 h5 y338 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">33 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Central and Modular Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws381">Perception can produce beliefs and other intentional states. Indeed, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws382">when philosophers speak of “perception,” they are often speaking of things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws375">like perceptual gestalts—seeing a dog or seeing something <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">as<span class="fff ls12 ws383"> a dog—that </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws146">are reasonably regarded as <span class="ff11 ws0">being</span><span class="ws384"> intentional states. At the least, they involve </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b">the application of concepts and the formation of assumptions about per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws385">ceived states of affairs; and some classifications of intentional states (e.g., </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws386">those of Brentano [1874] and Husserl [1900/1973, 1913/1989]) treat such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws387">states as forming a class of intentional states alongside of beliefs, hopes, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15f">and desires. The bulk of what one finds about perception in a neuroscience </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21">textbook, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, is concerned with “early processing” or “preprocessing” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws388">that takes place in the brain before application of concepts, for example, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws389">the separate visual processing pathways in the brain for color<span class="_ _2"></span>, form, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18b">motion, and the organization of the visual cortex. Most of this processing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1df">not only is unconscious but cannot be made into an object of conscious </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38a">awareness through introspection. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, perceptual mechanisms can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38b">operate adaptively without the formation of conscious intentional states. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38c">(And, depending on one’<span class="_ _2"></span>s views of what species of nonhuman animals </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws251">have intentional states, it may be possible for perception to drive adaptive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38d">behavior in animals that lack even the capacity for intentional states, or at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38e">least the kind that can enter into reasoning and produce knowledge.) Even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38f">if the philosophers’ paradigm examples of perceptual states are intentional, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws390">supply the warrant for perceptual beliefs, and can enter into reasoning, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws391">mechanisms that produce these states operate on different, nonintentional, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10c">nonrational principles, and they can produce adaptive behavior even when </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws392">they do not produce intentional states. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, there are separate sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws393">tems for each perceptual modality<span class="_ _2d"></span>, which operate in different ways, and at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws394">least in the case of vision, there are several distinct subsystems that process </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">different kinds of visual information. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws395">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e find much the same thing with motor control. When philosophers </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws396">think about the control of bodily activity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, they are primarily concerned </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws397">with <span class="ff11 ws0">action</span>, in which motor control is driven by intent, often intent that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws398">involves various beliefs and desires and practical reasoning. But what one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws399">finds in a neuroscience textbook is largely about the unconscious, nonin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws145">tentional, nonrational, and mechanistic operation of circuits in the motor </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39a">and premotor cortices and associated noncortical areas. There is a useful </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39b">and suggestive distinction between “motor” and “premotor” areas of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39c">brain—the latter being involved in motor planning and the organization </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c5">of behavior into particular sequences of bodily movements—but even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12b">this seems something of a bridge between the “inner” space of conceptual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39d">thought and reasoning and the more mechanism-like operations of the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
