<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf28" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="28"><div class="pc pc28 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y339 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x68 h5 y33a fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x4e h5 y33b fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y33c fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x91 h5 y33d fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">34 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 3 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39e">motor areas. Motor behavior<span class="_ _2"></span>, moreover<span class="_ _2e"></span>, can take place without the experi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10b">ence of intentional states or reasoning, not only in the case of true reflexes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29a">but also, importantly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in the case of expert performance, such as that of an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">athlete “in the zone” or a chess master<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39f">Another topic with a similar profile is the comprehension of language. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a0">Phenomenologically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, we simply hear sounds as meaningful speech. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a1">there are complicated mechanisms underlying the processing of sounds </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf3">into phonemic, syntactic, and lexical units, and the integration of these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a2">units into an interpretation as meaningful speech via sentence parsing. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws87">Both the operation of these capacities and their acquisition seem to require </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f3">special mechanisms, which operate on nonintentional, nonrational prin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws362">ciples (Chomsky 1965, 1966). Unlike the mechanisms for perception and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a3">motor control, those for comprehension of language seem likely to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">unique to the human species. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26b">In each of these cases, we seem to have phenomena that have one foot </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a4">in the world of concepts, intentionality<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and the space of reasons, and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbb">other in the world of neural mechanisms that operate on different prin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf8">ciples—principles that are in a broad sense “mechanical.” And the relation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a5">between the intentional states and the mechanistic neural processes in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a6">case is not between a state at a high level of organization and its “realizing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws194">substrate” but more like different links in a causal chain. When we perceive, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a7">early perceptual processing <span class="_ _29"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">causes<span class="fff ls11 ws3a8"> conceptually laden perceptual gestalts </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a9">and subsequent intentional states and reasoning. When we act, intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws124">states and practical reasoning <span class="ff11 ws0">cause</span> the processes that direct bodily move-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">ment to come into play<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3">This, in turn, suggests a basic way of extending the standard view to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3aa">accommodate phenomena such as perception, action, and language pars-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ab">ing. There are, as it were, two importantly different types of cognition. On </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ac">the one hand, there is “central” cognition, which is the subject matter of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27d">standard philosophical theories and described by the three-tiered picture, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ad">involving concepts, intentional states, and reasoned inference. On the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ae">other hand, there are a variety of “peripheral” processes, operating on dif-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3af">ferent, nonintentional, nonrational principles, which can either produce </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b0">outputs into central cognition (in the cases of perception and language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b1">parsing, which indeed might be seen as a specialized form of perception) or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse8">take inputs from central cognition (in the case of the motor systems) and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b2">produce behavior as a consequence. In the next section, I describe a familiar </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b3">approach to this division, which contrasts central and peripheral processes </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">by treating peripheral processes as “modular<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
