<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf2b" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="2b"><div class="pc pc2b w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x11 h5 y1ba fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y369 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1d h5 y36a ff11 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="fff"> </span></div><div class="t m0 xb1 h5 y36b fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _61"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2ac fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc h5 y36c fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y36d fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">37 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Central and Modular Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b">stages of visual processing. At some point, the early visual processors pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e1">duce output (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, a perceptual gestalt) that is introspectable and can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15e">used in thinking; but <span class="ff11 ws0">how</span> it was produced, and whatever operations and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e2">representations were used in producing it, are not passed on for further use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e3">(though they can be reconstructed through neuroscientific research). The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26">systems that perform such operations are thus “cognitively impenetrable” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e4">in the sense that higher thought cannot “see into” them but has to make </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">do with their outputs. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23c">The opposite question about the information sharing of such systems is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdc">what kind of information they can use. <span class="ls11 ws28f">Some types of mental processes are </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">quite open-ended in what information they can use. My understanding of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18b">cooking and my understanding of thermodynamics might seem like sepa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3bb">rate things. But if, for example, I am cooking at high altitude, I may have to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e5">adjust my cooking in light of what I know about how water boils at differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74">ent altitudes. That is, my culinary prowess is, in principle, capable of using </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse">knowledge that is not itself culinary in character<span class="_ _2"></span>. Likewise, it can use the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws214">input of the senses, proprioceptive feedback, and so on. By contrast, early </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d">perceptual processing seems largely insulated from almost everything else </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e6">I know<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Conceptual and contextual knowledge <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">do<span class="fff ws3e6"> play a role at </span>some<span class="fff ls16 ws13d"> point </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e7">in perception—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in forming beliefs about what I am seeing. But they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e8">do not affect how the visual system detects edges or constitutes figures, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e9">as evidenced by the persistence of the standard visual illusions even after </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">we know them to be illusions. In this way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the early perceptual processing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ea">systems are “encapsulated” in the sense of being insensitive to information </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">that might exist elsewhere in mind and brain. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15">Encapsulation, in turn, is plausibly linked to other features Fodor lists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3eb">as characteristics of modules. Encapsulated processes have homologues </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ec">across a great deal of the animal kingdom and are likely to be products of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ed">evolution, at least weakly nativistic (in the sense of being species typical, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ee">early appearing, and developmentally canalized), and subserved by stan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ef">dard neural structures. They are also likely to be <span class="ff11 ws0">fast</span><span class="ls11">, both because they are </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f0">(plausibly) “hardwired” and because they do not waste time gossiping with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws306">the rest of the brain. Because they operate largely on their own, without </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f1">input from higher cognition, they are mandatory<span class="_ _2"></span>. And because they are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f2">subserved by standardized species-typical neural mechanisms, they have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">characteristic breakdown patterns. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f3">In short, there is a prima facie case that we have a set of processing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f4">systems in the brain that share a certain set of features that give us rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f5">son to group them as a class. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, we can see how at least some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f6">these features might quite naturally be related to one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Indeed, it </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
