<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf2d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="2d"><div class="pc pc2d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x5c h4 y233 fff fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y241 fff fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x6b h4 y244 fff fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _93"> </span><span class="ls7 ws406"> </span></div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y383 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y384 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x87 h5 y385 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7f h5 y386 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y387 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1f h5 y388 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _94"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">39 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Central and Modular Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws407">everything that the scientist knows is, in principle, relevant to determining what else </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws408">he ought to believe. In principle, our botany constrains our astronomy, if only we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">could think of ways to make them connect. (105) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y241 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws409">By saying that scientific confirmation is Quinean, I mean that the degree of con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws32e">firmation assigned to any given hypothesis is sensitive to properties of the entire </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws40a">belief system; as it were, the shape of our whole science bears on the epistemic status </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">of each scientific hypothesis. (108) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y382 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws406">These points may perhaps be made more clearly without the neologisms. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y389 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40b">take a previous example, one might be tempted to think of culinary under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40c">standing as a “knowledge domain.” But my culinary beliefs are, at least </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40d">potentially<span class="_ _2d"></span>, subject to challenge and revision from an open-ended set of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf6">sources. They are, of course, subject to challenge from the senses. (I <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">thought </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40e">this would be enough salt, but upon tasting the results, I decide otherwise.) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws299">But they are also subject to challenge from other domains of knowledge: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y38f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27a">for instance, I may have to revise the cooking time for a dish when cooking </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y390 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws188">at high altitude based on what I know about how altitude affects cooking, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y391 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40f">or I may revise a recipe in light of what I have learned about how different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y392 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws410">cooking techniques affect nutrient content. Or in science, what we discover </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y393 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws411">about electromagnetism (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, when it is incorporated into quantum theor<span class="_ _2f"></span>y) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y394 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">may eventually pose a problem for a corpuscularian view of matter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y395 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11e">In interpreting the claim that central cognition is “Quinean,” it is help-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y396 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws412">ful to distinguish a mild Quineanism from a more radical variety<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y397 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws413">radical variety says that every change in concepts or beliefs necessarily </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y398 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b">affects <span class="ff11 ws0">all</span> my concepts and beliefs. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o put it crudely<span class="_ _2"></span>, my understanding of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y399 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws414">gravitation undergoes subtle changes when I acquire the concept </div><div class="t m0 xa hb y39a fff fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">ARCHDEA-</div><div class="t m0 x0 hb y39b fff fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">CON</div><div class="t m0 x7f h5 y39c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws415"> or learn that Attila the Hun turned back from his siege of Rome after </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws416">a conversation with Leo the Great. I have always found such claims wildly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws417">implausible. But a more prudent Quineanism goes something like this: we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y39f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc4">hold our concepts and beliefs only tentatively<span class="_ _2d"></span>. They are subject to revision </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a0 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws363">in light of further evidence and integration with other concepts and beliefs. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a1 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws418">And there is no a priori boundary to where the reasons for revision might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a2 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws419">potentially come from. This milder Quinean thesis makes an interesting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a3 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41a">and important claim and is directly relevant to claims about encapsulation, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a4 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">for if all beliefs are Quinean, they are all, in principle, subject to influence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a5 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">from all the rest of our beliefs. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3a6 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41b">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e might do well to distinguish this from another kind of argument </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a7 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41c">for the nonencapsulation of concepts and beliefs. Isotropy and Quinean-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a8 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41d">ism are concerned with how concepts and beliefs (recall that the two are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3a9 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41e">inseparable for Quine) are <span class="ff11 ws0">constituted</span> and how they may be <span class="ff11 ws0">revised</span><span class="ls16 ws41f">. But </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3aa fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws420">knowledge domains are also porous in another way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. W<span class="_ _2"></span>e can take concepts </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
