<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf2e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="2e"><div class="pc pc2e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ab fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x23 h5 y3ac fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ad fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x18 h5 y3ae fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x34 h5 y3af fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y3b0 ff10 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3b1 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">40 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 3 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws421">and beliefs from different content domains and combine them through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws422">logical machinery<span class="_ _2"></span>. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can string beliefs about different subjects together </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws423">with logical connectives. And we can combine them in syllogisms. In this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e1">sense, both thinking and language are “promiscuous”: they are abilities </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa">that allow us to combine beliefs about different content domains, both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws424">in the simple sense of stringing them together with logical connectives </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33c">and in the fuller sense of creating new beliefs as a product of deductive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">reasoning. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws425">In short, neural localists like Gall had it right about input systems, but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws426">neural globalists like Flourens had it right about thinking. The mind—at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws427">least the human mind—has modular elements, primarily at the sensory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws428">periphery<span class="_ _2"></span>. But all the things we are accustomed to regard as “think-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws429">ing” are nonmodular<span class="_ _2d"></span>. And given Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s roots in the computationalist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42a">tradition, the natural term for such processes is “central.” A computer </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws42b">may use peripheral units like a keyboard, scanner<span class="_ _2"></span>, mouse, and printer<span class="_ _2e"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42c">and even a separate graphics card, each of which contains its own spe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42d">cial hardware circuitry; but most of the <span class="_ _34"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">computation<span class="fff ls11 ws42e"> is done by a single </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42f">“central processing unit” using programs and data stored in a common </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws291">memory space. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws430">The book ends on a note of epistemological pessimism. Fodor points </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws431">out that whereas the cognitive sciences have been producing impressive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws432">explanations of processes at the sensory and motor peripheries of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws433">brain, we understand almost nothing about how thinking takes place. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws434">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e do not know of neural localizations for various forms of thought </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws435">like concepts or judgments the way we do for<span class="_ _2"></span>, say<span class="_ _2"></span>, detection of color </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f4">and form. And computational models of thinking founder on the frame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws436">problem—the problem of setting algorithmic (or even heuristic) bound-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f9">aries around what a program should treat as the <span class="ff11 ws0">relevant</span><span class="ls11 ws1b"> information in </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws437">performing and monitoring a task. This, Fodor points out, has an eerie </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws438">resonance with isotropy and Quineanism, and he suggests (plausibly) that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws439">isotropic and Quinean processes may not be susceptible to modeling by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfb">traditional computational approaches in artificial intelligence, and (a bit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43a">more speculatively) there may be no other way to gain epistemic traction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws291">on thinking, either<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y21d ff10 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">3.3 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Motivations, Criticisms, and Alternatives </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cb">Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s presentation of the distinction between central and modular cogni-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43b">tion at least appears to have been intended primarily as a thesis about cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws43c">nitive architecture, beholden to empirical data about the mind. Moreover<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
