<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf2f" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="2f"><div class="pc pc2f w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bc fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y36c fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b2 fff fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 yda ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">41 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Central and Modular Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43d">it seems largely to have been case driven: perceptual systems and language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ad">processing (and one might reasonably add motor control to the list) seem </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43e">to have a set of distinctive features that differentiate them from concep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws43f">tual thinking and reasoning. Whatever the initial motivations, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws440">the bifurcation between central and modular cognition also seems to carve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws441">out a space for the kinds of mental phenomena (concepts, intentional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43f">states, reasoning) studied in several core areas of philosophy (epistemol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws102">ogy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, semantics, truth theor<span class="_ _2f"></span>y<span class="_ _2d"></span>, logic). Moreover<span class="_ _2e"></span>, it presents central cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws442">as a single representational medium that has a common set of types of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws443">units (word-sized concepts, sentence-sized intentional states, discourse-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws444">sized forms of inference), where thoughts about any subject matter can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws445">be brought into contact with one another<span class="_ _2"></span>, and where they are potentially </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws446">mutually relevant. But if central cognition is architecturally unified in this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse8">way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, modular cognition, by contrast, is quite disunified: each module has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11">its own characteristic domain, representational system, and inference pat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws447">terns, and plausibly its own distinctive neural realization and natural his-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tory in a process of selection. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws448">While Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s notion of a module is widely used in philosophy and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf3">cognitive sciences, it has also received a great deal of criticism, much of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">which can in some measure be traced to the looseness of his characteriza-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b9">tion. Recall that Fodor does not tell us how his various criteria for modular-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb0">ity are supposed to fit together—for example, whether they are supposed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44a">jointly supply necessary and sufficient conditions. Some things he says— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8">such as that some of the features are not all-or-nothing affairs but admit of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44b">degrees—might suggest a weaker interpretation; but his conclusion that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44c">number of modular systems is quite small, limited more or less to process-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44d">ing of perceptual inputs, motor outputs, and language comprehension, sug-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44e">gests that he intends the criteria to be fairly stringent, and he clearly resists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44f">the tendency of some other writers to speak of “modules” wherever a func-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tional decomposition of cognitive abilities occurs (cf. Fodor 2001, 56–57). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws450">Criticisms have therefore come on a number of fronts. Some critics, such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws451">as Jesse Prinz, claim that Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s criteria are too stringent jointly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d7">some cases even individually<span class="_ _2d"></span>, to be applied even to the few things that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws325">Fodor considers to be modular<span class="_ _2d"></span>. On the other hand, there are any number of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">cognitive abilities that share some but not all of Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s criteria. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b2 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws452">Fodor’s criteria for modularity do not carve out interesting divisions in the mind. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b3 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws453">Systems that have been alleged to be modular cannot be characterized by the prop-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b4 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws454">erties on Fodor’s list. At best, these systems have components that satisfy some of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3b5 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws455">Fodor’s criteria. There is little reason to think that these criteria hang together, and, </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
