<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf30" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="30"><div class="pc pc30 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x2c h4 y232 fff fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3b6 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3b7 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3b8 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb4 h5 y3b9 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb5 h5 y3ba ff11 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _2"></span><span class="fff"> </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3bb fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _95"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3bc fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">42 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 3 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws456">when considered individually, they apply to a scattered and sundry assortment of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 fff fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">subsystems. (Prinz 2006, 33) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3b6 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18d">In subsequent chapters, I make a case that a subset of these features can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3bd fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c8">applied equally well to a great deal of what Fodor would count as central </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3be fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws457">cognition, and they are quite relevant to the question of what units are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3bf fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">needed for a theory of understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3c0 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws296">The other main objection to Fodorian modularity has come from advo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c1 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws458">cates of the massive modularity thesis (e.g., Carruthers 2006a, 2006b; T<span class="_ _2d"></span>ooby </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c2 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d2">and Cosmides 2005). Fodor claims that while the mind has modules, their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c3 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d5">number is comparatively small, largely limited to input and output proces-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c4 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws102">sors and a language parser<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Advocates of massive modularity argue that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c5 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17">number of mental modules is actually much larger—perhaps in the hun-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c6 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws459">dreds or thousands—and, perhaps more importantly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, they are not limited </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c7 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">to “peripheral” processes of perception and motor control. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3c8 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45a">The massive modularity thesis is generally developed in tandem with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c9 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45b">views from evolutionary psychology<span class="_ _2"></span>. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e seem to have little problem think-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3ca fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45c">ing of <span class="ff11 ws0">animal</span> minds as including a grab bag of useful instincts that are prod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3cb fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45d">ucts of millions of years of natural selection—that is, of seeing the <span class="ls12 ws0">cognitive </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3cc fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f3">abilities of nonhuman animals as distinctly biological traits. Indeed, phi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3cd fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws212">losophers have often doubted that any nonhuman animals possess reason-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3ce fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">ing and other features of centralized cognition. But when we think about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3cf ff11 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">human<span class="fff ws45f"> minds, we tend to have the opposite bias. In spite of believing that </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d0 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws460">we too are products of natural selection, and indeed that the genetic dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d1 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21b">tance between us and other primates is slight, we seem to have a hard time </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d2 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws313">believing that we too possess many psychological traits that are biological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d3 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws461">adaptations, and try to attribute as much as possible about our minds to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d4 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">reasoning. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3d5 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws462">From a biological standpoint, these biases seem misguided. It is true that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d6 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws463">the tiny genetic differences between humans and chimpanzees support </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d7 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws464">enormous differences in intellectual capacity: the capacity for language, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d8 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws465">a greatly expanded ability to create and use tools, more complex social </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3d9 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfd">cognition, and most of what philosophers have lumped under the head-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3da fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws466">ings of “thought” and “reason.” And we are right to be interested in these </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3db fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws348">things, as they are important components of who we are, both as individu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3dc fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws467">als and as a species. But biological mutation does not operate by wiping </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3dd fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws468">clean the slate of millions of years’ accumulation of adaptive traits and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3de fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws469">designing a new type of mind from scratch. New traits may be built on the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3df fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws292">old and transform them in many ways; but many of the old traits are sure </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3e0 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46a">to still exist, and indeed to still be adaptive in many cases. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, new </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
