<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf31" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="31"><div class="pc pc31 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2d7 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _e"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y3e1 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x9b h5 y224 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y13f fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e2 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb6 h5 y3e3 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">43 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Central and Modular Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46b">species-typical psychological traits are themselves likely to be products of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">selection, and perhaps even adaptations. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46c">Evolutionary psychology thus biases the investigation of divisions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws344">cognitive labor in a direction different from Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s. Fundamental to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws46d">constitution of units of cognition is their selection history<span class="_ _2"></span>. A capacity is a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff11 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">trait<span class="fff ws46e"> because it is a product of selection. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, evolutionary psychol-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46f">ogists have often assumed that products of selection will be <span class="ff11 ws0">adaptations </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws470">rather than exaptations or evolutionary by-products, and tend to classify </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25">the <span class="ff11 ws0">function</span> of a trait in terms of the adaptive advantage it conferred in an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ancient ancestral environment. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws142">Viewing cognitive capacities as grounded in evolutionary processes also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse5">connects nicely with some of the features attributed to modules. Adapta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws471">tions are encoded in the genome, and this explains their species typicality<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b1">They can thus be expected to have a characteristic developmental sequence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws392">that is strongly canalized. And because they are thought of in biological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws472">terms, it seems plausible that in many cases they will have standard neural </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27d">localizations. Both localization and the ability to perform fitness-enhanc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa5">ing functions suggest that they will be fast and automatic. If we assume </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18f">that selection has operated on various traits individually<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it seems likely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws473">that the traits will be domain specific, and at least plausible that many of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws474">them will be functionally autonomous from one another<span class="_ _2"></span>, including being </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws475">to some extent encapsulated. And if evolution selects “quick-and-dirty” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws399">ways of solving particular problems, and these ways take the form of spe-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54">cial-purpose mechanisms in the brain, it seems likely that each will have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws476">a representational system that is tooled toward a specific type of problem </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">and response. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws477">Evolutionary psychology thus makes sense of why a number of Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c">features of modules might go together<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It also provides its own criterion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws478">for what is likely to be a module. For a trait to be a module, not only must </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws149">it be species typical, but it must be something that could have been pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws479">duced through natural selection sufficiently far back in our lineage that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws47a">population it appeared in included common ancestors of all contemporary </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47b">human beings. Anything that has appeared during recorded history could </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46">not be a biological adaptation common to the species and hence could not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47c">be a module, <span class="ff11">even if</span> it had spread to all human cultures through learning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws303">and cultural transmission. (And, indeed, such an ability would be “species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47d">typical” only in a statistical, not a biological, sense.) There is thus an impor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2dc">tant role for something like Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s “central cognition” as well, though the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47e">principal criterion for it lies not in cognitive architecture but in whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47f">an ability is a product of evolution or of culture and learning. This way </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
