<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf32" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="32"><div class="pc pc32 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e4 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y3e5 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e6 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x72 h5 y3e7 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">44 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 3 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws480">of looking at modules greatly expands the number of cognitive capacities </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws481">that could plausibly count as modular<span class="_ _2d"></span>. T<span class="_ _2"></span>o name a few: folk physics, folk </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws482">psychology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, folk biology<span class="_ _2"></span>, facial recognition, social contracts, cheater detec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws483">tion, “mind reading” (assessing the psychological states of others), story-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws484">telling, contagion avoidance, music, dance, empathy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, kindness, practical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws485">reasoning, assessment of kinship, incest avoidance, and navigation by dead </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">reckoning. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws486">Evolutionary psychology is itself a highly controversial approach to the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f4">mind and has received a number of withering critiques from philosophers </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws191">of science (Kitcher 1985; O’Hear 1997; Dupré 2001a). T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo criticisms stand </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20e">out as having special importance. First, evolutionary psychologists have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws487">been criticized for assuming that products of evolution must be adapta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14c">tions. Critics point out that many heritable traits are evolutionary by-prod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e9">ucts and exaptations as well. Second, the treatment of traits as adaptations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws488">is linked to highly speculative “just-so stories” about what adaptive advan-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws489">tage a mutation might have conferred in an imagined ancestral environ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f7">ment, and this adaptational story is then used as an account of the <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">function </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">of the presumed module. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48a">These criticisms are no doubt justly applied to some of the publications </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48b">of evolutionary psychologists. There is a tendency toward “strict adapta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48c">tionism” within evolutionary psychology<span class="_ _2"></span>, and any account one might give </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48d">of what an ancestral environment was like, or the adaptive advantage a trait </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48e">conferred in such an environment, will of necessity be highly speculative. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws486">But to my mind, the force of these criticisms is often overestimated. Many </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48f">proponents of evolutionary psychology acknowledge that some traits are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws490">exaptations or by-products (cf. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>ooby and Cosmides 2005; Carruthers </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsad">2006a, 2006b). And the real damage done by this criticism is to the attempt </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws491">to ground an account of the function of a module in its ancient adaptive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws492">role, and not to the broader thesis that many special-purpose traits exist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws98">that are products of selection. Likewise, if we abandon the commitment to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws254">strict adaptationism, the speculative “just-so stories” play a much weaker </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws493">role in the justification of the massive modularity hypothesis. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b7">additional forms of evidence for species-typical traits, such as cross-species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws494">comparisons, and for separation of traits, such as functional and develop-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws495">mental dissociability<span class="_ _2d"></span>. T<span class="_ _2"></span>o the extent that we are content to speak of heritable </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws414">psychological traits in nonhuman animals, there seems little reason to be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws496">skeptical about them when the species in question happens to be our own. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws494">Indeed, even psychologists <span class="ff11 ws0">not</span> inclined to evolutionary reasoning tend to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws497">recognize the existence of things like mechanisms for contagion avoidance </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">and detection of the mental states of conspecifics. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
