<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf33" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="33"><div class="pc pc33 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb0 h5 y3e8 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y295 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _96"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y180 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xb7 h5 y270 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yfe fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _66"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xa7 h5 y3e9 fff fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff10 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">45 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Central and Modular Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws498">For our purposes, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, it is perhaps more useful to note that the mas-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws499">sive modularity thesis is, in important ways, a fairly conservative revision </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a6">of Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s thesis. The criteria for modularity may differ considerably from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49a">Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (Carruthers [2006b], for example, stresses dissociability<span class="_ _2d"></span>, domain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49b">specificity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, mandatoriness, neural localizability<span class="_ _2"></span>, and central inaccessibil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws473">ity), but they are not so broad as to include understanding that is accom-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49c">plished through specialized learning: there are not modules for Newtonian </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49d">mechanics or chess, though these are ways of understanding particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17c">domains that involve highly specific proprietary rules and are largely dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38">sociable from other kinds of understanding. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, in many cases, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f5">postulation of additional modules does not threaten the modular/central </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49e">cognition framework. If a module exists for face recognition, contagion, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56">or cheater detection, it may be encapsulated and cognitively impenetra-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws467">ble and function largely to provide something like a propositional input </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49f">for further centralized cognition and behavioral control. (Indeed, many </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf5">such purported modules might easily be viewed as specialized perceptual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a0">processing mechanisms for things like faces, cheating, and sources of con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws327">tagion.) Likewise, it is perfectly compatible with the modular/central cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws191">nition framework that modules, operating individually or in tandem, may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws4a1">sometimes guide behavior in ways that bypass central cognition entirely<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54">For many animal species, they would probably <span class="ff11">have to</span><span class="ls11 ws254"> do so, as we must </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd3">draw the line somewhere as to what species possess central cognition at all. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y116 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11b">More generally<span class="_ _2d"></span>, massive modularity threatens the <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff11 ws0">unity<span class="fff ls1a ws49c"> of central cogni-</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls1a ws33e">tion only to the extent that the modules postulated actually operate <span class="ff11 ws0">within </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a2">the realm of concepts, intentional states, and reasoning. If they merely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb9">supply <span class="ff11 ws0">inputs</span> to central cognition, or execute motor routines in a fashion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff11 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws155">caused by<span class="fff"> central cognition, or bypass it entirely<span class="_ _2d"></span>, it really does not matter </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a3">how many modules there are. In the next chapter<span class="_ _2"></span>, I look at a number of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a4">types of mental phenomena that clearly involve intentionality and infer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws142">ence but seem to display some of the features Fodor attributes to modules, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws482">particularly domain specificity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, proprietar<span class="_ _2f"></span>y representational systems, and a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 fff fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">certain degree of automaticity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, impenetrability<span class="_ _2"></span>, and encapsulation. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
