<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf35" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="35"><div class="pc pc35 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e4 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y3eb ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3ec ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _69"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x74 h5 y3ed ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y1bf ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x96 h5 y3ee ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">48 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b6">beliefs about anything we are capable of having concepts of and entertain-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b7">ing beliefs about, and mixing them together in thought and inference. Cen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b8">tral and modular systems can interact, but only in the limited sense that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b9">modular perceptual systems can provide inputs to central cognition, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a7">central cognition can drive modular motor outputs. In short, the things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ba">that philosophers have traditionally classified as “thinking,” and perhaps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">even as “mental,” fall in the sphere of central cognition. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bb">In this chapter<span class="_ _2"></span>, I present several lines of research from the cognitive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38a">sciences that suggest that this bifurcation between central and modular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf">cognition is not realistic. A great deal of our thinking and understanding, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12a">ranging from an infant’<span class="_ _2"></span>s earliest ways of understanding the world to scien-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bc">tific theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, with all adult commonsense understanding in between, <span class="_ _1"></span><span class="ff16 ws0">also </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bd">seems to be organized around particular content domains, and this seems to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15f">require that we posit units of thinking of corresponding size—considerably </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f4">larger than individual concepts, beliefs, and inferences, but considerably </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ae">smaller than the entire web of concepts, beliefs, and inferential disposi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4be">tions. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, to make sense of this, we would seem to need to conclude </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bf">that the cognitive systems that deal in these units—mental models, if you </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c0">will—must each have their own internal ways of representing their own </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws222">domains (often quite different from model to model) and rules for produc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3e8">ing inferences about them. And because expert performance is expertise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff16 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">in<span class="ff14 ws110"> such domains, and the judgments of experts are often, in contrast with </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdf">those of novices, fast, automatic, and not reached through explicit reason-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c1">ing, we must conclude that model-based understanding <span class="ff16 ws0">can</span><span class="ls12 ws4c2"> have these </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c3">other features associated with modules as well, even if they are not species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">typical and lack standard neural localizations. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c4">The upshot of this is not that thinking is never explicit reasoning in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c5">a language-like system, or that there are not any systems in the brain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws4c6">that meet the conditions for a Fodorian module. The implication, rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c7">is that the bifurcation of the mind into central and modular systems is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c8">not a good or useful one and obscures a much more general feature of cog-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a7">nition: that both within the sphere of meaning and reasons and outside it, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsfe">it seems to be a general principle of our cognitive architecture that we deal </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c9">with the world through many special-purpose systems that represent differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ca">ent features of the world in distinct ways, and we use them <span class="ff16 ls11 ws4cb">in conjunction </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff16 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cc">with one another<span class="ff14"> rather than integrating them into a single representational </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">system. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
