<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf36" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="36"><div class="pc pc36 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3ef ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x2b h4 y88 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3f0 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y3f1 ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3f2 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">49 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">4.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls12 ws3c">Core Systems </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cd">In recent years, a number of developmental and cognitive psychologists, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e8">such as Elizabeth Spelke (2000) and Susan Carey (2011), have argued that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ce">the human mind possesses several cognitive systems called core knowledge </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws257">systems, which are species typical, strongly canalized in development, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws196">already evidenced at the earliest ages at which we have ways of testing for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cf">them. The case for core systems is primarily empirical. It consists in evi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws114">dence that there are particular ways of understanding the world, retained </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d0">in adulthood but different from full adult understanding, that appear </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws473">extremely early in development. Indeed, they seem to appear too early to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y207 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d1">be products of social learning mediated by language, and in some cases, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d2">they are evidenced so early that it is difficult to regard them as products of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws100">learning at all. These include ways of understanding both the physical and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d3">the social world. In their excellent review article, Spelke and Kinzler (2007) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">summarize it thus: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3ef ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws469">Studies of human infants and non-human animals, focused on the ontogenetic and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f3 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wse5">phylogenetic origins of knowledge, provide evidence for four core knowledge sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f4 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4d4">tems. … These systems serve to represent inanimate objects and their mechanical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f5 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4d5">interactions, agents and their goal-directed actions, sets and their numerical rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f6 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4d6">tionships of ordering, addition and subtraction, and places in the spatial layout and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f7 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws2a0">their geometric relationships. Each system centers on a set of principles that serves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f8 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4d7">to individuate the entities in its domain and to support inferences about the enti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3f9 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4d8">ties’ behavior. Each system, moreover, is characterized by a set of signature limits </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y3fa ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4d9">that allow investigators to identify the system across tasks, ages, species, and human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y88 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">cultures. (Spelke and Kinzler 2007, 89) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3f0 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4da">This is an elegant and compact summary<span class="_ _2"></span>, but precisely for that reason, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3fb ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">there is much to unpack within it. I continue by examining their descrip-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3fc ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">tion of each system, and the evidence used to argue for its existence. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y3fd ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">The Core Object System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3fe ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44f">The first candidate for a core system involves an understanding of contigu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3ff ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4db">ous solid Objects with distinct and enduring boundaries. (I will capitalize </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y400 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4dc">the words ‘Object’ and ‘Agent’ when they are used in the special senses that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y401 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4dd">are internal to the core systems hypothesis.) V<span class="_ _2"></span>ery early on, children show </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y402 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e6">evidence of expecting such Objects to have a certain set of characteristic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y403 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cf">properties: they will preserve their boundaries, move as a unit, interact with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y404 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d9">one another only through contact, and be set into motion only when acted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y405 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4de">on through direct contact. In addition, children show abilities to track such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y406 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws377">Objects visually<span class="_ _2d"></span>, even when occluded, well before the age that Piaget had </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
