<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf37" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="37"><div class="pc pc37 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y352 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x55 h5 y407 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8c h5 y408 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _98"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xb8 h5 y409 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6a h5 y40a ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ad ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _99"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ae ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9a"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y226 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 y22c ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">50 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4df">supposed that children “discover” object constancy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. The system seems to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e0">have built-in resources for a very limited form of counting as well, or at </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">least a sensitivity to low numerosities. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e1">It is important to note that the notion of “Object” here is inextricably </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e2">linked with the ways things are constituted <span class="ff16 ws0">as</span><span class="ls11 ws4e3"> Objects. Philosophers are </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e4">used to applying the word ‘object’ much more broadly—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, to abstract </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e5">objects, to persons, to Cartesian souls, to sets. The notion of the “Object </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78">System” is used in explicit contrast with systems oriented toward inten-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ac">tional agents or sets. The relevant notion of “Object” is further contrasted </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e6">with things to which it is not applied, like liquids and heaps. In other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45">words, the claim is more precisely that there is a psychological system that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e7">is applied to spatiotemporal stimuli that are perceived as being cohesive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38d">and continuous. Indeed, even this is not completely perspicuous, as it sug-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws317">gests that <span class="ff16 ws0">first</span> there is some <span class="ff16 ws0">independent</span><span class="ls11 ws33"> test for properties like cohesion and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24">continuity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff16 ws0">then<span class="ff14 ws24">, if these are met, the Object System is applied. But in </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws323">fact the applications of principles of cohesion and continuity are supposed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e8">to be themselves part of the Object System—indeed, one might venture to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1cb">say that if there is such a core system, <span class="ff16">this is where our ideas of spatiotemporal </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff16 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">cohesion and continuity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, as well as Objecthood, originate from<span class="ff14 ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e9">The Object System is not supposed to be <span class="ff16 ws0">universal</span><span class="ls11 ws4ea"> in its application. </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4eb">Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, it applies only to a subset of things we experience. Indeed, that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ec">subset is more or less defined by the system itself. The “rules” that govern </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws237">which experiences activate this system as an interpretive tool—in Kantian </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ed">terms, their “schematism”—must appear as early in development as the sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22b">tem itself. In these regards, the Object System is importantly different from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ee">some other ways that we come to understand the world later in childhood, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">such as foods, artifacts, piles, and liquids. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ef">There also seem to be <span class="ff16">signature constraints</span> on the ways in which the sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tem can be used. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y226 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f0">Infants are able to represent only a small number of objects at a time (about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y22d ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f1">three …). These findings provide evidence that a single system, with signature limits, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y227 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f2">underlies infants’ reasoning about the inanimate world. By focusing on these signa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y22e ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f3">ture limits, investigators of animal cognition have discovered the same core system of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y228 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws456">object representation in adult non-human primates. … Like human infants, mon-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y229 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f4">keys’ object representations obey the continuity and contact constraints … and show </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y22f ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f5">a set size limit (of four …). Investigators of cognitive processes in human adults have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y230 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f6">discovered that the same system governs adults’ processes of object directed atten-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y22a ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f7">tion. … Human adults are able to attend to three or four separately moving objects, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y22b ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f8">for example, when the objects’ boundaries and motions accord with the cohesion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y40b ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f9">and continuity constraints. Adults fail to track entities beyond this set size limit, and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
