<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf38" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="38"><div class="pc pc38 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x8a h4 y232 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3b6 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9b"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x3 h5 y40c ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y40d ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y40e ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x99 h5 y40f ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y410 ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y411 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y412 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 y413 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">51 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y414 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws3d3">they fail to track entities that do not obey the spatiotemporal constraints on objects. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y415 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">(Spelke and Kinzler 2007, 90) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3b6 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws450">These latter studies suggest that the core object system is <span class="ff16 ws0">not</span> simply a devel-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3bd ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fa">opmental stage, like the succession of schemas hypothesized by Piaget, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3be ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3da">which were understood to be temporary constructs to be discarded when </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3bf ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fb">a more adequate schema became available. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, they seem to involve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c0 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46c">enduring capacities that continue to exist in adulthood alongside more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c1 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fc">sophisticated adult modes of cognition. And since some of those more </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c2 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fd">sophisticated forms of adult cognition—such as particular ways of typifying </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c3 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws85">Objects into more exact categories, and generalized arithmetic abilities— </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c4 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36d">are subject to cultural variation and transmission, adult cognition should </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c5 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws35f">include the core abilities even if a person has no understanding of arith-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c6 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws179">metic operations like addition and multiplication, or even a generalized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y3c7 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">notion of the counting numbers. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y416 ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">The Core Number System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y417 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b9">Proponents of core systems claim that there is a second system that is also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y418 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44e">concerned with numerosity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Whereas the core object system is supposed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y419 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws371">involve abilities involving exact small numerosities, the core number sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y41a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12c">tem involves abilities to detect and compare significantly larger numerosi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y41b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fe">ties, such as might be presented by two stimuli, one displaying ten objects </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y41c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62">and another thirty<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This ability is, additionally<span class="_ _2"></span>, nonmodal, in the sense that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y41d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5">it does not operate only on stimuli presented through one sensory modal-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y41e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws447">ity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. And, significantly<span class="_ _2"></span>, its application is not limited to contiguous Objects </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y41f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ff">but includes elements such as sounds and actions in its domain. Again, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y420 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws92">such abilities appear very early<span class="_ _2"></span>, endure into adulthood, and are found in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y421 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">nearby species. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y422 ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">The Core Agency System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y423 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws500">From early on, children treat people, animals, and other stimuli that dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y424 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f8">play signs of agency differently from inanimate objects, liquids, and things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y425 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ac">like piles of sand. The behaviors of the former are treated as goal directed, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y426 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws501">and infants tend to mirror them in their own behavior<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Some such mirror-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y427 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws502">ing, such as mimicry of four stereotypical facial gestures, has been observed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y428 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">very early indeed, perhaps as early as hours after birth. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y412 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 wsa3">Spatio-temporal principles do not govern infants’ representations of agents, who </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y429 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws503">need not be cohesive …, continuous in their paths of motion …, or subject to con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y42a ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws504">tact in their interactions with other agents. … Instead, the intentional actions of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y42b ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws4f1">agents are directed to goals …, and agents achieve their goals through means that are </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
