<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf39" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="39"><div class="pc pc39 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x86 h4 y242 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y42c ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y42d ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb9 h5 y42e ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y42f ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">52 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws505">efficient. … Agents also interact contingently … and reciprocally. … Agents do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws506">need to have perceptible faces. … When they do, however, infants use their direction </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws507">of gaze to interpret their social and non-social actions …, even as newborns. … In </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws503">contrast, infants do not interpret the motions of inanimate objects as goal-directed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">…, and they do not attempt to mirror such actions. (Spelke and Kinzler 2007, 90) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y42c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws508">Interpreting agents differently from inanimate objects is clearly a feature of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y430 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19a">adult cognition as well, and a similar profile of agent-directed cognition has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y431 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">been evidenced by studies of nonhuman animals. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y432 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws509">The core agency system is more controversial than some of the other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y433 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsff">core systems. One reason for this is that a module for interpreting Agency </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y434 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50a">(capitalized to reflect its special usage within the theory) requires encoding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y435 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50b">of specialized ways of detecting some highly sophisticated phenomena. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y436 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13c">An innate ability to detect contiguous solids requires much less sophis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y437 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50c">tication of design than one to detect purposeful action. But by the same </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y438 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50d">token, Agency should be a difficult notion for humans (or other animals) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y439 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50e">to construct out of a prior inventory of notions confined to spatiotempo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse0">ral properties of stimuli. (Indeed, one might argue that such notions are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa9">insufficient to the task. Agency-concepts are not a conservative extension </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws50f">of Object-concepts.) In other words, there is reason to think that this is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws510">exactly the sort of case where one might most strongly expect to find </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c1">special-purpose ways of understanding the world, on grounds similar to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y43f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws511">Chomsky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s “poverty of the stimulus” argument for an innate grammar </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y440 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws512">module. People and tree leaves both move, and perhaps even an empiri-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y441 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e0">cist mind could detect that they display different patterns of movement. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y442 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws513">However<span class="_ _2"></span>, it is less clear that, just on the basis of the objects and their </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y443 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws41c">movements, such a mind could come up with the hypothesis of Agency<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y444 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws514">And even if it could do so, there are an open-ended number of ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y445 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws217">of grouping different types of motion that would be hypotheses equally </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y446 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17c">consistent with the data. But in fact we all employ more or less the same </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y447 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws45">framework for interpreting Agents, and we show evidence of doing so very </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y448 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f6">early<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Since the stimuli underdetermine this interpretation, we have rea-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y449 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws515">son to think that there is at least some innate bias toward it. In addition, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws516">it is not clear that we could function as members of a <span class="ff16 ws0">social</span><span class="ls12 ws517"> species, or </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9b">engage in particular types of early social learning, without the very early </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws518">introduction of something that allows us to treat conspecifics as having </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws519">typical features of Agency<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and so it seems likely that any social species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51a">must possess developmentally canalized species-typical cognitive abilities </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y44f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws51b">for the detection of Agency<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y450 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51c">The core agency system would seem to be constitutively tied to our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y451 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45b">notions of Agency<span class="_ _2d"></span>. That is, if the hypothesis is correct, we may be unable to </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
