<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf3a" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="3a"><div class="pc pc3a w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x42 h5 y1ba ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7 h5 y452 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x65 h5 y453 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y454 ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y455 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y456 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9c"> </span><span class="ls7 ws51d"> </span></div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y457 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls7 ws2fa"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">53 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3c">get outside our innate understanding of Agency to analyze it or its domain </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25f">in nonintentional terms. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can, to be sure, come to understand that some </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51e">things that initially <span class="ff16 ws0">seemed</span> to be Agents—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, characters in cartoons—are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51f">not really bona fide Agents at all. But it seems unlikely that we can cash out </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws520">the phenomena that are interpreted by this system, or the things that make </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws521">up its domain, in anything but an intentional vocabulary<span class="_ _2"></span>. Such notions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws165">as we have in this region of our conceptual space would seem to be tied </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws522">to our developmentally canalized endowment of core capacities, even if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws523">they can be expanded on, enriched, and adumbrated. In this respect, Den-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19d">nett’<span class="_ _2"></span>s (1971, 1987) idea of an intentional stance—a special framework for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a4">interpreting things as acting on the basis of their beliefs and goals—seems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws524">well conceived. Likewise, the domain specificity of the core agency system </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws525">seems constitutive in nature. That is, one cannot specify the class of things </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12f">to which the system is applied <span class="ff16 ws0">except</span><span class="ls11 ws8a"> through the system itself, or perhaps </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">some more sophisticated descendant of it. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y165 ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">The Core Geometric System </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48b">The fourth core system is devoted to an understanding of the geometric </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws526">properties of the environment, “the distance, angle, and sense relations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws527">among extended surfaces in the surrounding layout” (Spelke and Kinzler </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a3">2007, 91). It does not represent nongeometric properties such as color or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws269">odor (91). The evidence for such a system is drawn from studies of how chil-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws528">dren, adults, and nonhuman animals orient themselves spatially<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Adults </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws529">use at least two orienting systems, one guided by surface geometry and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws284">the other by landmarks. The landmark-based orientation system develops </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52a">later<span class="_ _2"></span>, whereas the geometric orientation system is evidenced very early<span class="_ _2"></span>. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b">Geometric System, moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, seems to undergo an important type of gen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3df">eralization as it becomes dissociated from the need for a fixed origin and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">angle of orientation. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y218 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws51d">The existence of such a system may seem either obvious or unnecessary<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws57">The geometrical character of the physical world seems so patently obvious </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52b">that it may seem unclear why we should need a special system to under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52c">stand it. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>et this very obviousness may simply be a product of how deeply </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4af">ingrained our geometric assumptions in fact are. (As Kant suggested, we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19d">may actually be unable to perceive space except as structured by a highly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52d">specific geometry<span class="_ _2"></span>.) W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can see this most readily by considering artifacts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52e">that have some features of human perception while lacking others. A cam-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48e">era receives visual information about the environment but does not inter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fa">pret that information as being a product of a three-dimensional world. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52f">get a computer to infer such a world of objects from optical input devices </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
