<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf3c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="3c"><div class="pc pc3c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xc h5 y3ab ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y46b ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y46c ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">55 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53d">they allow for anticipations, predictions, inferences, and motor planning. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53e">In this respect, they seem much more like Fodor’<span class="_ _2"></span>s central cognition and in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">particular have similarities to the other<span class="_ _2"></span>, more sophisticated, ways that we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53f">acquire of thinking about objects, agents, space, and numerosity through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws366">later development and specialized learning, like the folk theories described </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws98">in the next section. Both the core systems and these later-acquired ways of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws162">conceptualizing the world are “domain specific” in that they are ways of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5">thinking about particular parts of aspects of the world. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>et at the same time, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws540">they do not allow for cross-domain reasoning <span class="ff16 ws0">within</span><span class="ls11 ws372"> themselves, a defining </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">feature of central cognition. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws541">An important question about the core systems as a group is how they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47a">are related to one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In particular<span class="_ _2e"></span>, the two systems that provide ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e4">of categorizing types of things—the Object and Agency systems—are func-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10d">tionally dissociable from each other and have contradictory rules, yet one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws542">and the same thing can trigger either or both systems. The psychologist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws469">Paul Bloom (2004), for example, emphasizes that children (and adults) can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34c">think of something as an Agent without thinking of it as an Object, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws543">argues that this dissociability might be what lends intuitive plausibility to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws414">the idea of a soul that is independent of the body<span class="_ _2d"></span>. When the Agency sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws217">tem operates without the Object system, one conceives of a thing as an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws544">Agent but not as an Object, and such a thought is not counterintuitive to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws545">the child because only the Agency system is in play<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and it has no rules </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">that require Agents to also be Objects. Indeed, some of the rules of the two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws547">systems are logically incompatible: Agents move on the basis of their own </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a1">goals, whereas Objects are incapable of self-initiated motion. Objects must </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19">move from place to place in spatially continuous paths, and infants show </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws548">surprise if things that have shown the profile of Objects seem to disappear </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws549">from one place and reappear in another<span class="_ _2"></span>, but do not show the same surprise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40b">when things showing the profile of Agents do so. Nothing could really cor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54a">respond to the rules of both the Agency and the Object systems, because </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">some of the rules of the two systems contradict one another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y147 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25d">At the same time, a single stimulus might be able to trigger either sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54b">tem, perhaps even both at once. A toy that is made with features such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws531">a face, like Thomas the T<span class="_ _2d"></span>ank Engine, might at one time be regarded as an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d7">Object, which the child expects to move only when someone pushes it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1bf">down the tracks. But at another time it might be regarded as an Agent, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54c">especially when the child has reached an age when she can watch vid-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54d">eos depicting it as doing agential things or hear stories about its adven-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39c">tures. Indeed, even without the deliberately ambiguous features, a model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14f">train that is first observed inert might be assumed to be an Object and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
