<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf3d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="3d"><div class="pc pc3d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y352 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x52 h5 y46d ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x19 h5 y46e ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x39 h5 y46f ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x54 h5 y470 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y471 ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y472 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">56 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a0">then, to the child’<span class="_ _2"></span>s surprise, be reconstituted as an Agent when the power </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54e">switch is thrown and the train begins to move without any obvious exter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">nal cause. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37a">Of course, as I have described the examples, the identification of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws54f">Agent and the Object as “the same thing” is supplied from the perspective </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse5">of the adult observer<span class="_ _2"></span>, and in the examples described, the stimulus is per-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws550">ceived first through one core system and then through the other<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It is less </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws296">clear whether (a) a single stimulus can <span class="ff16 ws0">simultaneously</span><span class="ls11 ws551"> trigger both systems, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14f">and (b) if it can do so, whether the child can bind the two representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws43b">tions together as representations <span class="ff16 ws0">of</span><span class="ls12 ws552"> the selfsame object and regard one and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws553">the same thing as being both Agent and Object. Bloom seems to think </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90">not and claims that we naturally think of human beings as consisting of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23a">two things—a body (an Object) and a soul (an Agent). I am skeptical of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d3">Bloom’<span class="_ _2"></span>s conclusion. Adults, at least, seem to be quite capable of triangulat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a1">ing a single object through multiple cognitive lenses, even if the two ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws554">of regarding it are logically incompatible. Of course, it is possible that we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws394">do this through some mechanism other than the core systems. And even if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws555">adults can triangulate through the core systems, it is also possible that the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws556">ability is acquired only long after the core systems are in place. While the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws557">specific question about how the core systems can be combined is an empiri-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws558">cal question requiring more research, there is nonetheless an important </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44e">point here about <span class="ff16 ws0">some</span> forms of cognition: that we understand the selfsame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws559">object through more than one way of thinking about it, and incompatibili-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55a">ties between the two ways of thinking about it do not seem to present an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">obstacle to the psychological possibility of doing so. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y215 ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">4.2 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls12 ws3c">Folk Theories </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws232">A second and slightly older hypothesis in cognitive and developmental psy-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55b">chology is the claim that ordinary human understanding involves implicit </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55c">theories about the natural, biological, mental, and social world, acquired </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53e">over the course of early to middle childhood and persisting through adult-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws473">hood. These implicit theories are commonly referred to by names such as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55d">“folk physics,” “folk biology<span class="_ _2d"></span>,” and “folk psychology<span class="_ _2"></span>.” They consist of what-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55e">ever species-typical assumptions there may be about matters such as how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55f">objects move when thrown or dropped, what features we can expect of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39f">any animal species (e.g., that individual animals of a species are offspring </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf">of parents of the same species, have a species-typical physiology and diet, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a2">etc.), and how we interpret people’<span class="_ _2"></span>s actions as consequences of their beliefs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">and desires. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
