<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf3e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="3e"><div class="pc pc3e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x50 h5 y26b ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y473 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xba h5 y474 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e8 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x38 h5 y26f ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x91 h5 y295 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a3"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x80 h5 y180 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5 h5 y270 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbb h5 y164 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y296 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">57 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws418">Developmentalists who study folk theories note that they are not com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws560">pletely mastered until sometime in mid- to late childhood (the time frame </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws80">varies with the folk theory) and have some typical developmental sequenc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b4">ing (cf. Gopnik and Meltzoff 1997; Gopnik 1996). For example, children </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws535">attribute beliefs to other people before they understand that other people’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39e">beliefs are different from their own. This latter capacity is generally gained </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws366">at an age of around four or five years in human children, and it is a matter </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws315">of some controversy which, if any<span class="_ _2d"></span>, other animal species share it. Advo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws90">cates of the view that commonsense understanding is theoretical—some-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws561">times called “the theory-theory”—tend to characterize this understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws562">in terms of general <span class="ff16 ws0">beliefs</span>, like “animals have parents of the same species” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws563">and “people tend to do what they believe will bring about the things they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws564">desire.” The different forms of folk understanding (e.g., folk biology and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37">folk psychology) also seem to have their own central concepts, like </div><div class="t m0 xbc hb y475 ff14 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">SPECIES </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y476 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52e">and </div><div class="t m0 x2 h5 y477 ff14 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">BELIEF<span class="fs2 ls7 ws52e">, and characteristic inference patterns. Folk-theoretic understand-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y478 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws565">ing is thus described in the vocabulary used for what Fodor calls central </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y479 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc1">cognition, though folk theories themselves have some characteristics of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y47a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws520">modules, such as being domain specific, appearing in a characteristic devel-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y47b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws566">opmental sequence, being applied automatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and having their own </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y47c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">special categories, forms of representation, and inference rules. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y47d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws567">Some cognitivists also suggest that these somewhat abstract central con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y47e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws568">cepts also form a kind of <span class="ff16 ws0">template</span> for more specific concepts. Pascal Boyer </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y47f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws569">(2001), for example, calls the concepts </div><div class="t m0 x15 h5 y480 ff14 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">ANIMAL<span class="fs2 ls7 ws569"> and </span>PERSON<span class="fs2 ls7 ws569"> “ontological cat-</span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y481 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws143">egories.” When a person learns a new animal concept—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 xbd h5 y482 ff14 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">ZEBRA<span class="fs2 ls12 ws3d3">—she does </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y483 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ae">not need to learn that members of the kind will have a characteristic diet, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y484 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40d">physiology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and means of reproduction. The </div><div class="t m0 x82 h5 y485 ff14 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">ANIMAL<span class="fs2 ls12 ws56a"> category is used as a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y486 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56b">template, with “slots” for certain types of information that are assumed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y487 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws298">to be available for all species and can be filled in with more specific infor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y488 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56c">mation about a particular species as one learns more about it. Thus even </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y489 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws56d">children know many of the right questions to ask to learn more about a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y48a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13e">new animal kind they have just encountered or been told about: What </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y48b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37">do they eat, and how do they get their food? How big do they get? What </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y48c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56e">kind of environment do they live in? How do they move around? Thus </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y48d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56f">something about the <span class="ff16 ws0">structure</span> of the folk theory encodes a certain kind of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y48e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws570">understanding—often left tacit—that guides the formation of more particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y48f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">lar beliefs. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y490 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5f">While the acquisition of folk theories seems to be strongly develop-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y491 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws571">mentally canalized—they are species-typical features of how adults and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y492 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws572">older children think about physical objects, persons, and animals, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y493 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws573">these appear at characteristic ages and in characteristic developmental </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
