<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf40" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="40"><div class="pc pc40 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 xb1 h5 y352 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a4"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y46d ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x72 h5 y495 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y496 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y497 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y498 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5e h4 y499 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 yda ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">59 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws587">to see competing (or successor) theories not so much in terms of making </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws177">incompatible claims in the same vocabulary as offering alternative ways </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws459">of conceptualizing their subject matter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Competing (or successor) theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws284">came to be regarded not so much as <span class="ff16 ws0">contradictory</span> as <span class="ff16 ws0">incommensurable</span><span class="ls16 ws588">, and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27c">theory change not as piecemeal change in particular scientific beliefs but </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9c">as revolutionary change in paradigms for understanding particular aspects </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">of the world. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws589">A number of different philosophers played roles in developing a new </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc5">consensus understanding of scientific theories—Thomas Kuhn, Imre Laka-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58a">tos, Paul Feyerabend, and David Lewis all certainly deserve special men-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3">tion—and entire books have been written about their works, individually </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58b">and collectively<span class="_ _2d"></span>. As my aim here is merely to pick out certain consensus </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58c">views, I will not even attempt to do justice to all the contributors to this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58d">important period in the philosophy of science. I will cite Kuhn as a main </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58e">contributor<span class="_ _2"></span>, though ultimately my interest is as much in his later views </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62">(around the time of his 2000 AP<span class="_ _2"></span>A presidential address) as in his seminal <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ff16 lsb ws0">The </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff16 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Structure of Scientific Revolutions<span class="ff14 ls12 ws3c"> (1962). </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58f">Kuhn’<span class="_ _2"></span>s initial approach was as a historian of science, concerned with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws590">the nature of theory change. As an introduction, here is an extended quote </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">offered retrospectively in a later publication: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y497 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws591">A historian reading an out-of-date scientific text characteristically encounters pas-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y49a ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws592">sages that make no sense. That is an experience I have had repeatedly whether my </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y49b ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws593">subject is an Aristotle, a Newton, a Volta, a Bohr, or a Planck. It has been standard to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y49c ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws594">ignore such passages or to dismiss them as products of error, ignorance, or supersti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y49d ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws595">tion, and that response is occasionally appropriate. More often, however, sympa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y485 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws596">thetic contemplation of the troublesome passages suggests a different diagnosis. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y49e ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">apparent textual anomalies are artifacts, products of misreading. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y498 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws597">For lack of an alternative, the historian has been understanding words and phras-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y49f ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws3">es in the text as he or she would if they had occurred in contemporary discourse. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y90 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws598">Through much of the text that way of reading proceeds without difficulty; most </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a0 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws599">terms in the historian’s vocabulary are still used as they were by the author of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a1 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws59a">text. But some sets of interrelated terms are not, and it is [the] failure to isolate those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a2 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws59b">terms and to discover how they were used that has permitted the passages in ques-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a3 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws59c">tion to seem anomalous. Apparent anomaly is thus ordinarily evidence of the need </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a4 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws59d">for local adjustment of the lexicon, and it often provides clues to the nature of that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a5 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws59e">adjustment as well. An important clue to problems in reading Aristotle’s physics </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a6 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws59f">is provided by the discovery that the term translated ‘motion’ in his text refers not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a7 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a0">simply to change of position but to all changes characterized by two end points. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a8 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a1">Similar difficulties in reading Planck’s early papers begin to dissolve with the dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y499 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a2">covery that, for Planck before 1907, ‘the energy element <span class="ff16 ws0">h</span>v’ referred, not to a physi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4a9 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a3">cally indivisible atom of energy (later to be called ‘the energy quantum’) but to a </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
