<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf41" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="41"><div class="pc pc41 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y233 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x43 h4 y234 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4aa ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4ab ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">60 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a4">mental subdivision of the energy continuum, any point on which could be physically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">occupied. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y233 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a5">These examples all turn out to involve more than mere changes in the use of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a6">terms, thus illustrating what I had in mind years ago when speaking of the “in-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a7">commensurability” of successive scientific theories. In its original mathematical use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y243 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws597">‘incommensurability’ meant “no common measure,” for example of the hypotenuse </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a8">and side of an isosceles right triangle. Applied to a pair of theories in the same his-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y245 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5a9">torical line, the term meant that there was no common language into which both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y234 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">could be fully translated. (Kuhn 1989/2000, 9–10) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4aa ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5aa">While scientific theories employ terms used more generally in ordinary </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ac ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws297">language, and the same term may appear in multiple theories, key theo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ad ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ab">retical terminology is proprietary to the theory and cannot be understood </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ae ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ab">apart from it. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o learn a new theor<span class="_ _2f"></span>y<span class="_ _2d"></span>, one must master the terminology as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4af ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ac">a whole: “Many of the referring terms of at least scientific languages can-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b0 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ad">not be acquired or defined one at a time but must instead be learned in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b1 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31f">clusters” (Kuhn 1983/2000, 211). And as the meanings of the terms and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b2 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ae">the connections between them differ from theory to theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, a statement </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b3 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5af">from one theory may literally be nonsensical in the framework of another<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b4 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws321">The Newtonian notions of absolute space and of mass that is independent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b5 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws25d">of velocity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, for example, are nonsensical within the context of relativistic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b6 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws97">mechanics. The different theoretical vocabularies are also tied to different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b7 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws19d">theoretical taxonomies of objects. Ptolemy’<span class="_ _2"></span>s theory classified the sun as a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b8 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5b0">planet, defined as something that orbits the Earth, whereas Copernicus’<span class="_ _2"></span>s </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4b9 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b1">theory classified the sun as a star and planets as things that orbit stars, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ba ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5b2">hence making the Earth a planet. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, not only does the classificatory </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4bb ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b3">vocabulary of a theory come as an ensemble—with different elements in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4bc ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c9">nonoverlapping contrast classes—but it is also interdefined with the laws of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4bd ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws371">the theory<span class="_ _2"></span>. The tight constitutive interconnections within scientific theo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4be ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f">ries between terms and other terms, and between terms and laws, have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4bf ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2e6">the important consequence that any change in terms or laws ramifies to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c0 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b4">constitute changes in meanings of terms and the law or laws involved with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c1 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa7">the theory (though, in significant contrast with Quinean holism, it need </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c2 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11c">not ramify to constitute changes in meaning, belief, or inferential commit-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c3 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ments outside the boundaries of the theory). </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4c4 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b5">While Kuhn’<span class="_ _2"></span>s initial interest was in revolutionary changes in theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c5 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b6">about what is in a broader sense a single phenomenon (e.g., changes in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c6 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse">theories of gravitation, thermodynamics, or astronomy), he later came to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c7 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b7">realize that similar considerations could be applied to differences in uses </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c8 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b8">of theoretical terms between contemporary subdisciplines in a science </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4c9 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5b9">(1983/2000, 238). And while he continued to favor a linguistic analogy </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
