<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf42" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="42"><div class="pc pc42 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yfd ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7d h5 y3e8 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y295 ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y270 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbe h5 y296 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">61 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ee">for talking about conceptual change and incommensurability<span class="_ _2d"></span>, he moved </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d7">from speaking about moving between theories as “translation” to a “bilin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ba">gualism” that afforded multiple resources for understanding the world—a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bb">change that is particularly important when considering differences in terms </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">as used in different subdisciplines. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bc">Scientific theories are thus like modules in having specific domains, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b1">which are represented in a proprietary fashion. There are as many scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws417">theories as there are well-understood phenomena, and each theory is con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fa">stitutively intertwined with the ways phenomena are understood through </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bd">it. Theories likewise employ proprietary taxonomies of object kinds, prop-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws311">erties, relations, and transformations and use proprietary representational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd0">systems with their own inference rules. But theories are unlike Fodorian </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5be">modules in that they are products of learning, and subject to scrutiny </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30d">and revision. Indeed, scientific theories are a case par excellence of intel-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5bf">lectual products that require explicit representation. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, they are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46e">like Fodorian central cognition in that they can be combined with other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws335">forms of thought in reasoning: they can be combined with other theoreti-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws399">cal claims and with commonsense observation and thinking in reasoning </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c0">to a conclusion, their appropriate use can be monitored through ways of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws556">evaluating context, and their content can be challenged through observa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tion and dialectic. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y211 ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">4.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Intuitive Reasoning, Semantic Reasoning, and Knowledge </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y212 ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">Representation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c1">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e have thus far looked at several kinds of cognition that do not fit com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c2">fortably into the bifurcated framework of central and modular cognition. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c3">Core systems, folk theories, and scientific theories are domain specific, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c4">and the understanding they underwrite comes in units larger than the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws424">size of individual concepts and beliefs, but smaller than the entire web </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws210">of concepts, beliefs, and inference patterns. Core systems, like modules, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws219">are unlearned and cannot be altered; folk theories and scientific theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c5">are products of learning, and the learning and alteration of them involve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32">wholesale alterations in units the size of a domain-centered theory because </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c6">the concepts and inference patterns distinctive of them are constitutively </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws317">interdefined. They involve implicit divisions of their domains into what we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c7">might call <span class="ff16">implicit ontologies</span>, with proprietary categories for kinds of things, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c8">properties, relations, and transformations. And once learned to the level of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c9">expertise, they can operate more or less automatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, quickly producing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ca">thoughts and inferences that are “intuitive” in the sense that they are not </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
