<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf44" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="44"><div class="pc pc44 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x3d h5 y4cc ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4cd ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x94 h5 y4ce ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xae h5 y4cf ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x51 h5 y4d0 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4d1 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x83 h5 y4d2 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb4 h5 y4d3 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">63 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws197">they are unsuited to underwriting the many semantically based inferences </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1aa">human beings routinely perform. Formal techniques treat predicates like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48c">‘dog’ as lexical primitives. They underwrite valid syllogisms involving such </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5dc">lexical units, but not the knowledge that is present in human semantic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5dd">competence. For example, we all know that if Lassie is a dog, then Lassie </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws235">is an animal, she has a weight, she has bones and kidneys, and so on. But </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40f">to get a computer to simulate this type of understanding, we must equip it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5de">with more than the ability to perform valid inference techniques on sym-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws557">bolic structures like “Lassie is a dog.” In short, we must encode human-level </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">semantic understanding of the concept </div><div class="t m0 x15 h5 y4cc ff14 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">DOG<span class="fs2 ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4cd ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21a">One way to do this is to supply the computer with a set of explicit propo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4d4 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb6">sitional representations, like “all dogs are animals,” “dogs have bones,” and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4d5 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89">so on. If this could be done with everything we know about dogs, it might </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4d6 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5df">allow formal inference techniques to generate a set of inferences equivalent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4d7 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ec">to those a human being would make. And if our only concern were to get </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4d8 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12a">a computer to reach the same conclusions humans would reach, regardless </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4d9 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38f">of <span class="ff16 ws0">how</span> they reach them, this might be enough. But if we are also concerned </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4da ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e0">to get the computer to make such inferences in a fashion that resembles the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4db ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e1">way human beings make them, encoding semantic understanding in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4dc ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f0">form of explicit propositional representations seems psychologically unre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4dd ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e2">alistic. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e understand things we have never put into explicit propositional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4de ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws581">form. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou may never have considered the proposition “dogs have kidneys” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4df ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a2">before, but in some sense you understood it to be true. Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ou may never have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e0 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws133">entertained the proposition “119 + 7 = 126” before, but it was in some sense </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e1 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsff">implicit in your mathematical understanding. And indeed we are inclined </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e2 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e3">to say that we <span class="ff16 ws0">knew</span> those things yesterday<span class="_ _2d"></span>, even though we had never </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e3 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws111">thought of them. That is, we didn’t just <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ff16 ws0">lear<span class="_ _2f"></span>n<span class="ff14 ls11 ws5e4"> them overnight, and had we </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e4 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">been asked, we would have given the right answer without any difficulty<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y4e5 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">A second way of approaching the problem is to model semantic under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e6 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws276">standing, not in the form of explicit propositions but in terms of a <span class="ff16 ls10 ws0">data </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e7 ff16 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">structure<span class="ff14 ws17e">—say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, like that of a relational database. The second generation of AI </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e8 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7b">was largely devoted to exploring the way semantic understanding is struc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4e9 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e5">tured as <span class="ff16 ws0">data</span>. The appeal of this strategy lay not only in its greater ability </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ea ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e6">to produce simulations that could not be achieved through propositional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4eb ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21c">representation, but also because it seems the more psychologically realistic, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ec ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e7">natural way to model semantic relations that are couched at the concep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ed ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e8">tual, rather than the propositional, level. The work of the models is done, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ee ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws38d">however<span class="_ _2"></span>, not at the level of the semantics of individual conceptual or lexi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4ef ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e9">cal units, but in explicating the systematic relations between them. T<span class="_ _2"></span>reat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4f0 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ea">ing semantic relations as data structures also has the advantage that many </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
