<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf45" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="45"><div class="pc pc45 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x3e h5 ya6 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x6a h5 y158 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a5"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y4f1 ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y264 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4f2 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y4f3 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x5 h4 y4f4 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y92 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1a h5 y93 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y4f5 ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4f6 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">64 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5eb">such relations are not well captured by standard logical machinery<span class="_ _2"></span>. Our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47b">understanding, say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, that dogs are four-legged is <span class="_ _88"></span><span class="ff16 ws0">not<span class="ff14 ls11 ws5ec"> accurately captured by </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ed">the proposition “All dogs have four legs,” as we understand that some dogs </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws206">have lost one or more legs, and indeed a few dogs have extra legs. Some sort </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ee">of semantic link clearly exists between the concepts </div><div class="t m0 x9e h5 ycc ff14 fs5 fc1 sc0 ls19 ws0">DOG<span class="fs2 ls7 ws5ee"> and </span>FOUR-LEGGED<span class="fs2 ls0">, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ycd ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47b">and perhaps one could devise a logical operator that would track this link </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4f7 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e">extensionally<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But as it is not clear from the outset how to do this, we are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4f8 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2cf">well served to find a way to model such links, if we can, in a fashion that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4f9 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ef">avoids the problem of how to model their precise relation to extensional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4fa ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">logic. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y4fb ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Information Chunking in Knowledge Representation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4fc ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e">The second generation of AI, in the 1970s, was marked by efforts to explore </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4fd ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc3">such an approach. Marvin Minsky<span class="_ _2"></span>, writing in 1974, sums up the general </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4fe ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">concerns as follows: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4f2 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws1f6">It seems to me that the ingredients of most theories both in Artificial Intelligence </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4ff ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f0">and in Psychology have been on the whole too minute, local, and unstructured to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y500 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f1">account—either practically or phenomenologically—for the effectiveness of com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y501 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f2">mon-sense thought. The “chunks” of reasoning, language, memory, and “percep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y502 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws316">tion” ought to be larger and more structured; their factual and procedural contents </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y503 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f3">must be more intimately connected in order to explain the apparent power and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y504 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">speed of mental activities. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y4f3 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f4">Similar feelings seem to be emerging in several centers working on theories of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y505 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws2b2">intelligence. They take one form in the proposal of Papert and myself … to sub-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y86 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f5">structure knowledge into “micro-worlds”; another form in the “Problem-spaces” of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y506 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f6">Newell and Simon …; and yet another in new, large structures that theorists like </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y507 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f7">Schank …, Abelson …, and Norman … assign to linguistic objects. I see all these as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y508 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f8">moving away from the traditional attempts both by behavioristic psychologists and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y509 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws5f9">by logic-oriented students of Artificial Intelligence in trying to represent knowledge </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y4f4 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">as collections of separate, simple fragments. (Minsky 1974) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y92 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e7">It is useful to look at a few examples of such proposed structures for model-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y93 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">ing understanding and knowledge deriving from these projects. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y4f5 ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Semantic Networks </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y4f6 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ec">Semantic networks are data structures for encoding the semantic relations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y50a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a4">between lexical or conceptual units. The structure of semantic networks is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y50b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36d">best conveyed in diagrammatic form. Conceptual or lexical units are rep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y50c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws89">resented by nodes (diagrammatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, by words or by boxes or other closed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y50d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws300">figures), and semantic relations between them by links between nodes (dia-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y50e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fa">grammatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, by lines and arrows) (fig. 4.1). One important relationship </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
