<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf47" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="47"><div class="pc pc47 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y40a ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y53b ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc5 h5 y53c ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x34 h5 y53d ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">66 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws56f">might be structured in human beings (the “structure” in question being a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws610">kind of abstract formal/functional structure, not an anatomical structure). </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws611">It is an approach that seems more psychologically realistic than treating </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws612">our semantic understanding as a matter of having an enormous number </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws613">of explicit propositional beliefs like “dogs are animals.” Our understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws614">of dogs seems to involve a vast network of things that we seldom if ever </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3fc">explicitly think about, but which are in some sense “there” for us should </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws615">we ever need to access them. It is tempting, in trying to characterize what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb6">we do when we employ semantically based understanding, to turn to meta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsbc">phors like tracing down the strands of a web until we find what we need. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws616">Of course, neither introspection nor the formalism of semantic networks </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3">can tell us how—through what mechanisms—this is accomplished in the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">human brain. But it seems, at some level of abstraction, to get something </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws617">right about our psychology that is not captured by treating semantic under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2b3">standing in terms of formal inference: there is a great deal of our under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws380">standing that is packed into semantic relations, and our way of accessing </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws618">this understanding is different from the retrieval of stored propositional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">representations. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws619">Another advantage of the semantic network approach is that it leaves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61a">the question of what types of links there might be as one that can be guided </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17e">by empirical research, rather than for<span class="_ _2e"></span>cing it into the mold of whatever logic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61b">a theorist happens to be most familiar with. Indeed, research in knowledge </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61c">representation has led to an expansion of our understanding of the types of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">logics that might be relevant to modeling human thought. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y118 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws551">Semantic networks in AI bear important resemblances to network theo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61d">ries of meaning in philosophy of language and provide a machinery for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61e">testing and refining such theories. But they also raise an important question </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws61f">that philosophers often overlook. Given that our semantic understanding is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws620">characterized, at least in part, by links between conceptual or lexical units, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws621">are <span class="ff16 ws0">all</span><span class="ls11 ws5a"> such units connected into a single network, or are there perhaps a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4ab">variety of disjoint networks whose units can be connected nonsemantically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws617">through language and syntactically based inference techniques? In philoso-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws622">phy<span class="_ _2d"></span>, advocates of network views tend also to be holists. But semantic net-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4cd">work modeling does not require holism, though it is compatible with it. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9">The topology of semantic connections is ultimately an empirical question, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws418">and one that bears heavily on the topics of unities and disunities of mind </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">and understanding. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
