<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf48" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="48"><div class="pc pc48 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y53e ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _87"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y134 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h4 y137 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y53f ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y540 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span> <span class="_ _a9"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y541 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x48 h4 y542 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 yda ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">67 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">Frames </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsec">Semantic networks are structures for representing and encoding semantic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws623">understanding at the level of semantic relations between conceptual or lexi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96">cal units. Semantic understanding and logical deduction, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, do not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">exhaust the types of cognitive skills that are needed for understanding and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws624">interacting with the everyday world. When we interact with a new object </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39f">of a familiar type, or walk into a situation of a type we have encountered </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws326">before, we do not have to start from the ground up in assessing the situation </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">or knowing what to expect. In interpreting an object as a ball or a cube, or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12c">a room as the dining room of a restaurant, we automatically have a whole </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws625">set of expectations about what we will encounter<span class="_ _2"></span>, what sorts of actions we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4d3">might perform that are relevant to that situation (and perhaps even stereo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa4">typical of it), and what sequence of events we would expect to ensue if we </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws98">were to perform one or another of those actions. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e automatically assume </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32">a great deal about the object or situation that is not directly perceived: that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36c">the cube will look a certain way if we were to go around to the other side, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">that the hostess will seat us, that there is an unseen kitchen where food is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">being prepared, that we will be expected to pay for our meal, and so on. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e3">In short, we seem to have <span class="ff16">mental models</span><span class="ls11 ws626"> of various familiar types of </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c9">objects and situations. Such models allow for a great deal of variety of detail </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws79">to be filled in and actively explored, but they will also often involve default </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18b">expectations. For example, unless one sees a cafeteria line or a sign saying </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws627">“Please Seat Y<span class="_ _2d"></span>ourself,” we assume that someone who works for the restau-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">rant will come and take us to a table. Marvin Minsky (1974) writes of this: </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y134 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws628">When we enter a room we seem to see the entire scene at a glance. But seeing is really </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y135 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws629">an extended process. It takes time to fill in details, collect evidence, make conjec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y136 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws62a">tures, test, deduce, and interpret in ways that depend on our knowledge, expecta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y125 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws62b">tions and goals. Wrong first impressions have to be revised. Nevertheless, all this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y137 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">proceeds so quickly and smoothly that it seems to demand a special explanation. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y53f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws62c">The “special explanation” he offers is that such abilities are underwritten by </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y543 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">a particular type of knowledge structure that he calls a “frame.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y540 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws62d">A <span class="ff16 ws0">frame</span> is a data-structure for representing a stereotyped situation, like being in a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y544 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws62e">certain kind of living room, or going to a child’s birthday party. Attached to each </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y545 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws55d">frame are several kinds of information. Some of this information is about how to use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y546 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws62f">the frame. Some is about what one can expect to happen next. Some is about what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y547 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">to do if these expectations are not confirmed. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y541 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws630">We can think of a frame as a network of nodes and relations. The “top levels” of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y548 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws631">a frame are fixed, and represent things that are always true about the supposed situ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y542 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws632">ation. The lower levels have many <span class="ff16 ws0">terminals</span>—“slots” that must be filled by specific </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
