<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf49" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="49"><div class="pc pc49 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y243 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _aa"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xa4 h4 y235 ff14 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y236 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y237 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x83 h5 y549 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y54a ff15 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y54b ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">68 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 4 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y231 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws633">instances or data. Each terminal can specify conditions its assignments must meet. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y232 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws634">(The assignments themselves are usually smaller “sub-frames.”) Simple conditions </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y233 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws635">are specified by markers that might require a terminal assignment to be a person, an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y241 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws636">object of sufficient value, or a pointer to a sub-frame of a certain type. More complex </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y242 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">conditions can specify relations among the things assigned to several terminals. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h4 y243 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws637">Collections of related frames are linked together into <span class="ff16 ws0">frame-systems</span>. The effects </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y244 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws638">of important actions are mirrored by transformations between the frames of a sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y245 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws639">tem. These are used to make certain kinds of calculations economical, to represent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y234 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws169">changes of emphasis and attention, and to account for the effectiveness of “imag-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h4 y235 ff14 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">ery.” (Minsky 1974) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y236 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63a">Frames, like semantic networks, are thus data structures involving a node-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y246 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws302">and-link architecture. But whereas semantic networks are cast at the level </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y247 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23c">of semantic relations between lexical or conceptual units, frames represent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y248 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws123">the space of possible objects, events, and actions stereotypically associated </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y249 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">with a particular type of context or situation. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y24a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63b">Minsky (1974) explores a diverse set of examples of how the frame con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse9">cept can be applied, ranging from visual perception of an object and spatial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e1">imagery to meaning structure of a discourse and understandings of social </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63c">interactions; late in the article, he assimilates frames to Kuhnian paradigms, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63d">though without elaborating on the nature of the relationship (e.g., whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y24f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63e">he thinks that scientific understanding is frame based). He also cites the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y250 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws63f">work of several other researchers whose work, although employing other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y251 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws640">labels, like “model” or “script,” is proceeding essentially along similar lines. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y252 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws641">Relating all of these, not to mention other applications of frame-based </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y253 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws642">knowledge representation subsequent to Minsky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s article, would unduly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y254 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws643">extend this chapter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But it is difficult to get the idea across adequately </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y255 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws644">without attending to at least a few examples that give some sense of what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y256 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws645">a frame is, and how flexibly this way of representing knowledge can be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y257 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">applied. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y54c ff15 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Vision and Perspective </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y54d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16c">Consider the common experience of becoming acquainted with an object </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y54e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws126">visually<span class="_ _2d"></span>. At any one time, one sees the object from a single viewing angle, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y54f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws646">from which only a portion of its surface is visible. One knows, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y550 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws586">that there will be views from additional angles as well, and may anticipate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y551 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws647">some of the visual changes that will occur as one moves, say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, around the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y552 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2a1">object to the right (or<span class="_ _2"></span>, in the case of a small object, as one moves it around </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y553 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws648">in one’<span class="_ _2"></span>s hands). As one does so, new information becomes available: the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y554 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws649">shape of the formerly unseen parts of the object may meet our expecta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y555 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws143">tions or surprise us, and the colors, textures, and patterns on the additional </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
