<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf4a" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="4a"><div class="pc pc4a w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x1e h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y556 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _9c"> </span><span class="ff16"> </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y26b ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y270 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y338 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x74 h5 y557 ff14 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff15 fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">69 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Beyond Modularity and Central Cognition </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64a">surfaces come into view<span class="_ _2d"></span>. At the same time, we do not <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ff16 ws0">forget<span class="ff14 ls11 ws5df"> the sides we saw </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64b">before, which have now passed out of view<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Rather<span class="_ _2e"></span>, as we move around, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws331">we are building an ever-more-comprehensive understanding of the spatial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64c">and visual properties of the object. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o think about features that were visible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4be">before, we may not need to go back and look again but may be able simply </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64d">to call them to mind. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, when we encounter the object again or </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64e">encounter a similar object, we can imagine features of the unseen sides </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64f">(perhaps incorrectly<span class="_ _2d"></span>, of course) without directly reacquainting ourselves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">with them by moving ourselves or the object so that they are in view<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5af">The implication of this seems to be that, in seeing an object, we are not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53a">simply experiencing something like a photograph (or a binocular interpola-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a0">tion of photographs) of the object from a given angle, or even seeing a suc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws650">cession of photographs taken from different vantages. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e do indeed always </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws651">see an object from an angle; but we also have some kind of mental model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws652">the object that either consists in, or is generative of, understanding of what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws653">it looks like from multiple perspectives. And this is not simply a feature of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws222">how we see individual objects. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e gain templates for the understanding of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws654">new objects of familiar kinds: if you are handed a new pair of dice at the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws190">casino, you do not need to examine them to see what is on the sides (unless </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26b">you have reasons for suspicion), because your mind already fills in default </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws655">information that each side will have one to six pips. On the other hand, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws152">some aspects of what one will find are specified only at a generic level: pick-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46d">ing up a book, you expect to see text, but the content of the text requires </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws341">empirical examination, as does the question of whether there will also be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">pictures. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y119 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws656">The question Minsky essentially poses is, What kind of information </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws48c">structure could have these features? His answer is that it is a particular type </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws199">of frame structure. In his own example, an observer is looking at a cube </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws61a">from multiple angles. Minsky develops the data structure diagrammatically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">using a system of nodes and links ( <span class="_ _4"></span>fig. 4.3 <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls1e">). </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws657">T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o the left is a representation for the reader of how the cube looks from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws273">an angle, with sides labeled with letters. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o the right is a diagram intended </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws183">to represent the data structure used to encode such a view <span class="ff16 ws0">as</span><span class="ls18 ws658"> a view of a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws659">cube. The circular node at the top of the diagram represents the type of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws471">object, in this case a cube. This node has three arrows going down that are </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3bb">labeled “region-of”—that is, the three nodes to which they connect are rep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws214">resented as being regions of (the surface of) the cube. These are labeled in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws390">the diagram with arbitrary letter designations of faces of the cube, A, B and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65a">E. The region-nodes have internal links that are labeled for the spatial rela-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff14 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65b">tions between regions. Each region-node also has an additional outbound </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
