<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf4b" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="4b"><div class="pc pc4b w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y558 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x1e h5 y348 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff1a fs0 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span> <span class="_ _d"></span><span class="ls13"> <span class="_ _30"></span><span class="ls0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ydf ff1a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span>Chapter <span class="_ _31"> </span>5 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ye0 ff1a fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="ws65c">Cognitive Pluralism <span class="_ _ab"></span><span class="ws0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff1a fs0 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">5 <span class="_ _15"> </span>Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y121 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a4">In chapter 4, we saw evidence that understanding is organized into units </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y128 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65d">that are domain specific, relatively self-contained, and possess distinctive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y129 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e9">representational systems and inference patterns. This characterization has </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65e">much in common with the way cognitive “modules” are typically described, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws644">but is intended to describe a much more general feature of cognition. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws65f">organization of understanding into domain-centered units that can operate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws660">semiautonomously on their own principles is found in nativistic and highly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws34f">encapsulated perceptual Fodorian modules, in nonper<span class="_ _2e"></span>ceptual cognitive sys-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y12f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33d">tems (such as core knowledge systems) that are canalized early in develop-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y130 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws661">ment and might be products of natural selection, in the organization of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y131 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws662">acquired understanding in semantic networks and frames, and in scientific </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y132 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws663">models, our most exacting and regimented form of understanding. This </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fc ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f3">would seem to be a feature of the architecture of understanding that is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fd ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws664">independent of whether a particular mode of understanding is “nativistic” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2fe ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws665">or learned, neutrally localized or distributed, species typical or dependent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y2ff ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws555">on individual learning history or acculturation. Indeed, I will claim that it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y300 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">is a basic design principle for the architecture of understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y301 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws21f">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e need a nomenclature both for this view of cognitive architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y302 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws666">and for the domain-specific units of understanding that it posits. I will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y303 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws501">refer to the view I am espousing here as <span class="ff1b">cognitive pluralism</span><span class="ls11 wsef"> and will use the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y304 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws55a">expression ‘mental model’ as a generic term for the domain-sized units of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y305 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws667">understanding we have observed in modules, core knowledge systems, folk </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y306 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44b">theories, scientific theories, and Minskian frames. Settling on this terminol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y307 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws343">ogy for domain-sized units of understanding was in some measure a matter </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y308 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws128">of choice, as there were several obvious candidates, none of them perfect, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y309 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws668">and each having preexisting usages: ‘model’, ‘schema’, ‘frame’, ‘framework’, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b0">‘theory’. Short of inventing entirely new terminology<span class="_ _2"></span>, there was really no </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws169">way of finding a term that would not risk some degree of confusion with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y30c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30e">other writers’ uses of familiar words. In the end, I settled on ‘model’ largely </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
