<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf4c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="4c"><div class="pc pc4c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y40a ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">82 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 5 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws152">because it seemed to cause fewer problems and misunderstandings than the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws52e">others. Psychologists balked at ‘schema’ because of confusions with a well-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws669">known “schema theory” in their discipline (Bartlett 1932). Minsky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s notion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66a">of a frame is very close to what I mean by a mental model, but is likewise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">associated with a particular theory<span class="_ _2"></span>, one whose associations with strong AI </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws323">(the assumption that the mind is literally a computer and that mental pro-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws581">cesses are computational) I do not wish to endorse. (I do not actually think </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws14c">that Minsky’<span class="_ _2"></span>s frame theory requires an endorsement of strong AI; however<span class="_ _2e"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2aa">given that it originated in this context, in the end I decided not to use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws1c7">his terminology to avoid potential misunderstandings.) The term ‘theory’ I </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66b">prefer to reserve for a specialized form of cognition found paradigmatically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws192">in the sciences. And so I was left with ‘model’ by a process of elimination. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66c">Of course, the term ‘model’ also has a number of existing uses, including an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12">importantly different use in cognitive science explored by Philip Johnson-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66d">Laird (1983) and a philosophical use in logic, and I will attempt to situate </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4a6">my notion of a model in relation to these and other existing uses in chapter </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66e">9, and to develop at greater length what I mean by a “mental model” in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">chapters 6 and 7. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y112 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws168">The claim that mental models are fundamental units of understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5c5">does not require us to deny that we also possess a more ecumenical form </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66f">of language-like thinking, in which concepts and beliefs related to differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws670">ent domains can be brought together through syntactic construction and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws671">formal inference. Indeed, this would be a strange thing to deny<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Even if you </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws350">are skeptical about how much of our thinking takes the form of occurrent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws672">sentence-like thoughts, there is no way around the fact that we think in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws673">this fashion, at the least, when we think in a natural language such as Eng-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws674">lish. Language-like thinking and model-based thinking are good for differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws248">ent things and are complementary to each other<span class="_ _2"></span>. Models provide a basis for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">semantic understanding and intuitive inference, but each model provides </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7e">insight only into its own domain. In my view<span class="_ _2d"></span>, semantic understanding and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39">semantic inference are not really a part of language (or language-like think-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws675">ing) at all. Our concepts and the things they allow us to represent and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1af">reason about are primarily a product of the models we possess. Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws676">allows us to take these and combine them regardless of their models of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws300">origin and to perform types of inference that are content neutral. Language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws677">also allows us to make our thoughts explicit, and thereby to examine, test, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws678">and refine them, both individually and in interpersonal dialectic. Much of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws679">what is distinctive about human cognition would be impossible without </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws24d">language or language-like thought. But language would be largely devoid </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">of content without models. (I develop these themes further in chap. 11.) </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
