<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf4d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="4d"><div class="pc pc4d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff1a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y559 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y294 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb6 h5 y295 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y55a ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">83 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5a ff1a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">5.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">What Is Cognitive Pluralism? </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y336 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws554">The basic thesis of cognitive pluralism is that the mind employs multiple </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y200 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws53f">special-purpose models of parts, aspects, and features of the world, rather </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y201 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws67a">than (1) a single, consistent, and integrated model of everything or (2) a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1ae ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws67b">long inventory of more specific and independent individual beliefs. If a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y202 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws466">“worldview” is construed as a comprehensive and consistent model of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y203 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67c">world, then we possess nothing that answers to the description of a world-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y204 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67d">view<span class="_ _2d"></span>. But our understanding is at the same time far more systematic than </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y205 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67e">simply a list of beliefs, even beliefs that happen to cohere into a consistent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y206 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls10 ws0">set. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y207 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67f">This is, first and foremost, a claim about cognitive architecture: that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y208 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws680">domain-centered mental models are fundamental units of understanding, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws292">distinct from, and irreducible to, beliefs or judgments. In fact, I argue that </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6">models provide much of the basis for the semantic properties of concepts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45f">and judgments, and for a psychologically realistic account of dispositional </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d">beliefs. This, and other implications for semantics and epistemology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, is the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4de">focus of part 3. One of the main questions I address there concerns whether </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws363">the representational disunity that comes with a multitude of different men-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws671">tal models presents principled problems for various concepts of the unifica-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">tion of knowledge and understanding. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y210 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws681">The type of “plurality” at the heart of cognitive pluralism is primar-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws682">ily a <span class="ff1b ws0">representational</span><span class="ls11 ws9a"> plurality<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and the type of “unity” that is denied is a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws683">representational unity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Cognitive pluralism is the thesis that our ways of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws56">understanding the world are all partial, idealized, and cast in individual </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws684">representational systems and perhaps cannot be reconstructed into a sin-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf7">gle representational system that is at once comprehensive and consistent. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws249">These different representational systems are attuned to particular phenom-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws172">ena in the world and weakly optimized for pragmatic goals in interacting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws685">with them. Some of these representational systems are weakly nativistic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws678">and take species-typical forms. Others are acquired through trial and error<span class="_ _2"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws686">social learning, and the special processes involved in learning technical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws30">theories like those found in mathematics and the sciences. Which models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws401">are acquired may vary widely between individuals and over the course of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws687">a lifetime in a single individual. Through them, we “triangulate” a com-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws648">mon reality without the construction of a comprehensive and consistent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls16 ws0">worldview<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y21f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2f5">Cognitive pluralism need not be committed to denying other<span class="_ _2"></span>, nonrepre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws688">sentational types of cognitive unity<span class="_ _2d"></span>, such as personal identity<span class="_ _2"></span>, the transcen-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cf">dental unity of apperception, the unity of individual intentional states or </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
