<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf4e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="4e"><div class="pc pc4e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x7a h5 yfd ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xa2 h5 y556 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y559 ff1a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y473 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9d h5 y294 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y295 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _ac"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y557 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">84 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 5 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws579">perceptual gestalts, or the ability to combine insights originating in sepa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws658">rate models through logic and language. Nor need the cognitive pluralist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e6">be hostile to the project of unification as a regulative ideal. Moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, while </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws689">cognitive pluralism holds that mental models are a fundamental unit of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws529">understanding distinct from, and arguably prior to, language-like think-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws284">ing in concepts, judgments, and inferences, it does not deny that there <span class="ff1b ws0">is </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17e">such language-like thought. Indeed, the addition of capacities for language-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33b">like thinking to a model-based architecture confers distinct and substantial </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68a">cognitive advances that make up a great deal of what is distinctive about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">human minds. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y207 ff1a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">5.2 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Modules and Models </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws603">I propose that a pluralistic cognitive architecture can be found at a num-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68b">ber of biological, evolutionary<span class="_ _2"></span>, and cognitive levels. It is found as a design </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fe">principle in many animal species in the form of developmentally canalized </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68c">modules. This modular architecture arguably becomes more weakly nativ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68d">istic (i.e., is increasingly open to developmental variables and learning) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws401">in animals with more complex neural structures but is conserved even in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c2">human beings. In humans and numerous other species, pluralistic architec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68e">ture takes a new turn in the ability to acquire knowledge of the world and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws276">of how to interact with it in the form of domain-specific <span class="ff1b">learned models</span><span class="ls0 ws0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff1b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">Scientific<span class="ff19 ws86"> models are a special case of learned models, whose special features </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b0">lie in their regimentation and minimization (though not elimination) of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3f9">features peculiar to the cognizer<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In humans, this pluralistic architecture </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e3">is supplemented by special capacities for logical and linguistic thought, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws464">which permit concepts and insights originating in modular and model-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws74">based understanding to be combined in a domain-general representational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws257">medium. However<span class="_ _2"></span>, this domain-general medium does not thereby become </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws68f">a universal and domain-general super model. In humans, moreover<span class="_ _2"></span>, a great </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws690">number of learned models are socially shared or even socially distributed </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">and are transmitted through language and social learning. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y174 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws691">I will treat the notions of “module” and “model” as overlapping cat-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b3">egories, typified on different grounds. If a cognitive system is a module, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws692">then it must have a strongly or weakly nativistic (i.e., canalized) etiology </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws693">and a species-typical relation between functionality and neural localiza-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws26">tion (broadly understood to include distributed localization [M. Anderson </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws360">2014]). By contrast, I will speak of a “model” as a unit of understanding </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws694">that encodes systematic relational information about a domain and thereby </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5e0">affords the possibility of representations of particular states of affairs within </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
