<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf8" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="8"><div class="pc pc8 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ydc ff6 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x7 h5 ydd ff6 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _26"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yde ff6 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff7 fs0 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _d"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ydf ff7 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="lse">Preface<span class="_ _27"></span> </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ye0 ff7 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _a"></span><span class="lse">Preface<span class="_ _27"></span> <span class="_ _28"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h1 y0 ff7 fs0 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">Preface </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ydc ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4">T<span class="_ _2"></span>o the best of my recollection, the idea of cognitive pluralism first occurred </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye1 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5">to me during an NEH Summer Institute on Meaning held at Rutgers Univer-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye2 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6">sity in 1993. Some initial explorations of the theory found their way into </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye3 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws7">two previous books, <span class="ff8">Beyond Reduction</span> (2007) and <span class="ff8">Laws, Mind, and Free W<span class="_ _2"></span>ill </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye4 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws8">(2011), where I presented cognitive pluralism as a way of explaining dis-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye5 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9">unities of scientific understanding. Although the main arguments of those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye6 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa">books did not depend on cognitive pluralist speculations, many readers </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye7 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb">made it clear that they found cognitive pluralism to be the books’ most </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye8 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc">interesting and engaging thesis; and I had intended, even before publish-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 ye9 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd">ing them, to write a stand-alone work on cognitive pluralism once they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yea ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse">were complete. Between the time it took to produce those books and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yeb ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf">demands of academic life, it has taken quite a while to bring this book to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yec ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws10">completion. Looking back, I see that much of the early drafting was done </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yed ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11">during a sabbatical supported by an NEH Fellowship in 2006–2007. It was </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yee ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12">not until a subsequent sabbatical in the fall of 2014 that I was able to pull </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yef ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws13">together an enormous amount of draft material written piecemeal over </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf0 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14">the years and compose the remaining chapters. The anonymous referees </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf1 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws15">who read the prospectus confirmed my suspicion that what I had pulled </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf2 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws16">together was too large for one book, and the volume you now have before </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf3 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17">you is the result of separating out the material on cognitive architecture, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf4 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws18">epistemology<span class="_ _2"></span>, and semantics found here from further discussions of meta-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf5 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">physics, which will be reframed into a separate volume. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 yf6 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws19">During the writing process, the book went through a number of differ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf7 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1a">ent visions of its scope and intended audience. Several chapters, particu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf8 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1b">larly ones aimed at introducing material such as the history of globalist </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yf9 ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c">and localist views in neuroscience and the attempts of some historically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yfa ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d">important philosophers to deal with questions about unities of mind and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yfb ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e">understanding, did not make the final cut. These are not, for the most part, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 yfc ff6 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1f">things that could be published as professional articles, but might be of </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
