<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf50" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="50"><div class="pc pc50 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _53"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc6 h5 y56d ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y151 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _58"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 xc7 h5 y339 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y458 ff1a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y56e ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y56f ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">86 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 5 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a3">possible for each piece, captures, and the overall game state. A model of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a4">space under gravitation must contain resources for representing objects </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws422">(bodies), their relevant properties (mass, position, momentum), and laws </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">governing their gravitational dynamics. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a5">A model is <span class="ff1b ws0">apt</span> to the extent that its representational system tracks the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22d">salient properties of the phenomena that it is its function to model. Apt-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a6">ness need not be an all-or-nothing matter<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Classical gravitational models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a7">are quite apt for modeling the influence of gravity in most of the cases </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws27b">human beings encounter<span class="_ _2"></span>, but not for relativistic cases. Indeed, aptness may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a8">have multiple components. It may involve both <span class="ff1b">fit with a range of data</span><span class="ls3a ws6a9"> and </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff1b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6aa">suitability for things like computation<span class="ff19">. Classical models approach relativistic </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d2">models asymptotically with respect to aptness of fit in low-mass, low-veloc-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5ae">ity situations and exceed them with respect to computational simplicity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ab">Aptness is a pragmatic matter<span class="_ _2"></span>, and there are multiple dimensions of prag-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">matic virtue. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y165 ff1a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">5.4 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11">Representation </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6ac">The notion of representation has a checkered history in philosophy<span class="_ _2"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws167">Indeed, in my first book (Horst 1996), I took computationalists’ theories </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws415">of the mind to task for their use of a notion of representation. Readers of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ad">that book may thus find it surprising that I should use a notion of repre-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws460">sentation here. My concern there, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, was that a particular familiar </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ae">notion of representation was being put to an illegitimate use. Computa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsb9">tionalists rely on a notion of representation grounded in the paradigm of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6af">symbols. Paradigm examples of symbols, like those in written or spoken </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d8">language, have both syntactic and semantic properties. Computationalists </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws299">posit that “meaning” may be attributed univocally to symbols in a natu-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3d4">ral language, mental states, and the hypothetical symbols of a language </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b0">of thought. They then suggest that the meanings of mental states can </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b1">be explained by the supposed meanings of symbols in the language of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws580">thought, on the grounds that we already know (on the basis of symbols </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b2">in a public language) that symbols are the sorts of things that can have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">meanings. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y176 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b3">But the sense in which mental states are meaningful cannot be explained </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b4">by appeal to the type of meaning attributable to public-language symbols, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5b7">as the latter needs to be cashed out in terms of (1) the conventions of a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws219">public language and/or (2) the intentions of their authors and/or (3) the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws528">actual interpretations of hearers. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o say that an utterance or inscription </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37">“means-X” is just to say something about its conventional interpretation, </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
