<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf52" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="52"><div class="pc pc52 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5e ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x64 h5 y2d7 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2d2 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y141 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e3 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x41 h5 y57e ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xc9 h5 y57f ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">88 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 5 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23d">be applied only to beings that think and to the representational tokens and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">types that they employ as aids in thinking and communication. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c7">But how broad a category “representation” turns out to be will then </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6c8">depend on how broadly we construe “thinking” and “intentionality<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45f">Should we count the cognitive states of nonlinguistic animals as thinking, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41">and hence potentially as representational? And if so, <span class="ff1b ws0">which</span><span class="ls12 ws6c9"> nonlinguistic </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws39c">animals? Chimps? Cats? Lizards? Flatworms? As I have argued elsewhere, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1d">I think there are significant issues here (Horst 1996). W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e conceive of “the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ca">mental” through the lens of our own mental life, drawing on paradigm </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cb">examples that are conscious, available for scrutiny and reasoning, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws45e">articulable in language. A kind of terminological choice is involved when </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cc">we decide either (a) to apply terms like ‘mental’ and ‘representational’ to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2af">creatures without consciousness, reasoning, or language or (b) to restrict </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws315">those terms to cases closely resembling our own. I think we have good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cd">reason to treat the primary uses of words like ‘mental’ and ‘intentional’ as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws516">closely and perhaps constitutively linked with consciousness, reasoning, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws568">and language. In the present enterprise, however<span class="_ _2"></span>, our concern is not with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws280">consciousness, nor is it immediately with reasoning or language as special </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3cb">features of human minds. Rather<span class="_ _2"></span>, it is with cognition. And we have good </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws22b">reason both to use the word ‘cognition’ so that it covers processes that take </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ce">place in nonhuman animals, and to stress the continuities between human </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">and animal cognition. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y116 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cf">I thus propose to use ‘representation’ in a stipulative and technical </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d0">way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, in which representing-things-as-being-thus is something that is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws684">situated in the internal economy of a cognizing system, paradigmatically </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws380">a living organism. It may be that the cognitive capacities of some species </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37e">are so simple that we cannot plausibly apply this notion to them. Like-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d1">wise, it may be that this usage is naturally applied to certain nonbiological </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d2">homeostatic or autopoietic systems as well. But it is applied only <span class="ff1b ws0">analogously </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d3">to things like computer simulations of cognition that are not embedded </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d4">in homeostatic devices where the “representing” plays an adaptive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d5">function in those devices maintaining their characteristic form of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d6">being. I stress that this is a technical and stipulative usage of the word </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws0">‘representation’. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws432">T<span class="_ _2d"></span>o represent things as being thus-and-so, an organism requires two </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d7">types of things. The first is a <span class="ff1b">representational system</span><span class="ls11 ws51d">; the second, a particular </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73">representation, in the sense of a <span class="ff1b">representational vehicle</span><span class="ls11 ws2ac"> through which the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws32a">organism counts as representing things as being A rather than as being B. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d8">The space of possible representational-vehicle types is generated by the rep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d9">resentational system. A representational system consists of elements that </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
