<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf54" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="54"><div class="pc pc54 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b7"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x97 h5 y556 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5b0 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y30f ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">90 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 5 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff1b fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6e9">Models in perceptual modules:<span class="ff19"> Modules used in per<span class="_ _2e"></span>ception, such as layers </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws290">of V4 involved in color perception, may also be viewed as representa-</div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y102 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14d">tional systems. A system for color<span class="_ _2"></span>, for example, produces arrays of color </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y103 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ea">representations in a retinotopic map, tracking arrangements of chro-</div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e8">matic properties within the visual field. Such a model involves a spatial </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y105 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws180">arrangement of units, with an internal geometry and topology<span class="_ _2"></span>, and each </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y106 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws143">unit is capable of a range of states modeled by the color solid. Areas later </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws6eb">in the perceptual stream used to represent spatial geometry provide a </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y108 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws278">model describable in terms of geometric rules that is used for represent-</div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y109 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">ing objects in space. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5b1 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ec">A representational system defines a possibility space for possible token </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b2 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ed">representations. A particular gravitational model rigorously defines a way </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y327 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3bb">of thinking or speaking about the locations, motions, and dynamic interac-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y328 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ea">tions of bodies in space over time. This, in turn, provides the resources for </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y329 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws267">describing a particular set of bodies (e.g., the sun and the earth) in terms of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws583">position, mass, and inertia, and for calculating the resultant gravitational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ee">component of their dynamics. A restaurant script defines a set of possible </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6">events and actions (and thoughts and utterances about them) that are on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ef">script. This provides the resources for describing, understanding, and act-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws58a">ing appropriately in a variety of particular occasions of dining in which </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y32f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f0">different specific things happen within the constraints of the script. The </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y330 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f1">architecture of a layer of V4 defines a possible set of visual representations </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y331 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws40f">of colored environments, and perhaps of chromatic experiences. Particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y332 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws17b">chromatic experiences can then be located with respect to this space. A par-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y333 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f2">ticular utterance or judgment about a gravitational situation picks out one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y334 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws37d">possibility from such a possibility space, and likewise a judgment, utter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y335 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f3">ance, or perception about events in a restaurant or a chromatic experience. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y287 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4e3">In some cases, a representational token will pick out a possibility at the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y288 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f4">most fine-grained level: for example, at any one time, a person’<span class="_ _2"></span>s subjective </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y289 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4aa">color array has fully determinate values. In other cases, a representational </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws209">token will narrow the possibility space while leaving some things indeter-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc2">minate: for example, a description of the sun and the earth within a par-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46d">ticular gravitational model need not affirm or deny the existence of other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f5">bodies with mass, and the description of position and mass may be given to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6dc">a finite approximation, although the model theoretically allows for indefi-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y28f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">nitely more exact descriptions. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y290 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3ab">Some neurally realized representational systems, such as those involved </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y291 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f6">in regulating autonomic processes and the proprioceptive systems, have </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b3 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws244">the function of tracking things going on within the organism. Others, like </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
