<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf55" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="55"><div class="pc pc55 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3e4 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5b4 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5b5 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x86 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">91 <span class="_ _1e"></span>Cognitive Pluralism </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f7">physical models, have the function of tracking things in the world, though </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws602">the organism may itself be represented as an object in the world. Still others </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws216">may have the function of tracking affordances—that is, organism-salient </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fa">features of the environment to which it is related. (The cognitive systems </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws12b">of simpler organisms like flies seem mostly to be of this type, and likewise </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f8">human systems for things like tracking the position of head, eyes, and torso </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">used in orienting to things in the world and modulating perception.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y107 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3ef">While each representational system has its internal ontology<span class="_ _2d"></span>, these var<span class="_ _2f"></span>y </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b7">in their degree of “objectivity<span class="_ _2d"></span>.” By this I mean that there are var<span class="_ _2f"></span>ying degrees </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws522">to which the internal ontology is an artifact of things about the organ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws96">ism itself. The human color space, for example, does not neatly map onto </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsce">electromagnetic frequencies. It is heavily conditioned by the properties of </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa3">human cone and ganglion cells in the retina and is presumably a prod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws171">uct of selection that has been shaped over evolutionary history to track a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws262">particular set of visual invariants that have been relevant to the adaptive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6f9">performance of the species in an ancestral environment or a succession </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws67b">of such environments. At the opposite extreme, the ontology of objects </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1de">and properties in contemporary physics has been carefully developed to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws146">exclude, so far as it is possible, artifacts of human perception and cognition, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y113 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fa">and to track properties that objects have independently of how we perceive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fb">or think about them. Such “objectification” is never entirely complete, as </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws236">we must always think about objects in some particular way<span class="_ _2d"></span>, and the avail-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ac">able ways are constrained by our cognitive architecture. (For example, our </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fc">tendency to think of the world in terms of discrete objects with properties </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsdd">is probably due to a deep bias of human cognition, one that proves prob-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws692">lematic when we turn to quantum phenomena. But even our representa-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1c3">tions of quantum phenomena reflect human concepts imported from other </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws652">domains by metaphorical transposition (e.g., “wave”), and a stock of math-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fd">ematical concepts that the human mind is suited to dealing with. And, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2d1">indeed, many people seem to be unable to comprehend a system without </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">classical objects at all.) </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y147 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6fe">Each representational system has its own formal shape. In some cases, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ff">such as theories in physics, the formal shape is made explicit, and the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws484">system is partly defined by mathematical equations. In other cases, it is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws700">implicit and is made explicit only by formal modeling, such as is under-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">taken in computational psychology and computational neuroscience. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y14c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws701">Some representational systems can be modified or replaced, while others </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws36e">cannot. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can progress from folk to classical to relativistic and quantum </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws546">physics or make adjustments to the gravitational constant within a relativ-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws702">istic model. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can learn new rules of restaurant etiquette. But we probably </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
