<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf58" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="58"><div class="pc pc58 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y150 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x70 h5 y151 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xcb h5 y297 ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y459 ff1a fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5ed ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x38 h5 y33b ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5ee ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y5ef ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y33d ff19 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _bb"> </span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1a fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">94 <span class="_ _44"> </span>Chapter 5 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20c">woman who wished to become the legal mother<span class="_ _2"></span>, our erstwhile understand-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71e">ing of maternity relations is inadequate to the problem. Likewise, if one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a">asks where an electron is within an orbital, the question can no longer be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">answered without qualification, given contemporary physics. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y104 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws71f">Often (and perhaps always) the truth of a claim can be assessed only </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws720">once one has fixed what model is in play<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Suppose that Smith witnesses a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws721">traffic accident and testifies that the sedan was standing still and the bus </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11d">ran into it. In court, it will not count as a refutation of Smith’<span class="_ _2"></span>s testimony if </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws674">the opposing counsel points out that, according to our best physical mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4bf">els, there is no such thing as absolute rest, and hence the sedan could not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23f">have been standing still. What “standing still” <span class="ff1b ws0">means</span><span class="ls11 ws722"> depends on whether </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws49c">we are adopting a commonsense model in which motion is judged relative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5fd">to the face of the earth or a model suited to physics and cosmology<span class="_ _2d"></span>. It is the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws273">former that the judge is likely to count as relevant to matters of traffic law<span class="_ _2d"></span>, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsc4">and likely this was the type of model that Smith had in mind when giving </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws1a7">his testimony<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y20c ff1a fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">5.7 <span class="_ _1c"> </span><span class="ls11 ws3d">Types of Error </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws723">Corresponding to the two levels of alethetic assessment (aptness and truth), </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ae">there are two ways that representation may go awry<span class="_ _2"></span>. One of these involves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y169 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws724">the tokening of a representation that is not the best match available within </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws725">the limits of the operative model for tracking whatever it is its function to </div><div class="t m0 x0 hf y16b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws726">track. Asked to give the value of <span class="ff1c ls0 ws0">π</span>, I say that it is 17. Or I know about both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws727">cows and horses and misidentify a cow as a horse, perhaps because of bad </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws712">lighting. Or I say that the two lines in an illusory figure are of different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsd1">lengths when their lengths are equal. In such cases, the representation is </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">false. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y170 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws449">But there is another sort of case, in which a given model does not pos-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2fb">sess adequate resources to produce an apt representation at all, and perhaps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws492">I lack (and may not be capable of grasping) a model that can do so. For </div><div class="t m0 x0 hf y173 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b7">example, I can produce only a finite approximation of the value of <span class="ff1c ls0 ws0">π</span><span class="ls10 ws728">, but a </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6b4">fully accurate representation requires an infinite decimal sequence. Or my </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws241">subjective zoological ontology differentiates cows from horses but does not </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b6">extend to differentiating different breeds of cattle, so I cannot identify this </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws729">cow as a jersey or a Black Angus. Or I find myself unable to represent the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws569">world except in terms of classical objects and thus find the problems and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">models of quantum mechanics unfathomable. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y17a ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws72a">Both of these types of errors can be <span class="ff1b">forced errors</span><span class="ls11 ws1a1">—that is, errors that one </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff19 fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws160">cannot avoid. If I do not possess a representational system that affords an </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
