<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf5c" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="5c"><div class="pc pc5c w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x6d h5 y1ba ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5f7 ff1d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> <span class="_ _b"> </span> <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ls17"> <span class="_ _18"></span><span class="ls0"> </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y278 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xbf h5 y3eb ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y3ec ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x3a h5 y5f8 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2af ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">100 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 6 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws711">computer models. These will be used to illustrate what I take to be impor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws752">tant features of models and modeling, and will serve as intuition pumps </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws682">for what it would mean to call something a <span class="ff1f ws0">mental</span><span class="ls11 ws9a"> model. I explore the </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws753">relationship between my notion of a mental model and other uses of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">word ‘model’ in chapter 8. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y202 ff1d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">6.1 <span class="_ _1c"> </span>Scale Models (Target Domains, Idealization, and Aptness) </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b0 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse1">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e have all interacted at one time or another with scale models, ranging </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b1 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws308">from children’<span class="_ _2"></span>s toys to models of molecules used in a chemistry class. Scale </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b2 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsf4">models are typified, first and foremost, by their structural similarity to what </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b3 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4c0">they are models of, which we may refer to as the <span class="ff1f ws0">target</span><span class="ls12 ws611"> of the model. A </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b4 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">model of a 1964 Mustang has approximately the same shape and propor-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b5 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws64a">tions as a genuine 1964 Mustang, only much smaller<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In some such models, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b6 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42c">the similarity is limited to the surface contours and perhaps the colors. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b7 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws146">Other models may reproduce other features in miniature—the doors, trunk, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b8 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws754">and hood may open realistically<span class="_ _2d"></span>, the steering wheel may spin and turn </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1b9 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsaa">the wheels, and so on. A very fine model may even be composed of parts </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y166 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws20c">matching those of the real car: little pieces shaped like the engine, the cata-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y167 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws755">lytic converter<span class="_ _2"></span>, the struts and beams, and so on. Some may be powered, so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y168 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">that the model can move on its own power<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y169 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws699">But, of course, many other features will not be modeled. Even a powered </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws389">model car will likely run on batteries (of a shape and relative size unlike </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws103">those of an automobile battery) and not on a tiny internal combustion </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws712">engine. The parts will generally not be made of the same materials, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6bf">hence the balance and the ratio of size to weight will be different, and so </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws756">on. In models designed for different purposes, some of these features may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y16f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws757">in fact be modeled as well. Engineers designing a car or an airplane may </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y170 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws23a">build a scale model first and use it to test properties like wind drag and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y171 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws654">stability<span class="_ _2d"></span>. If a model is to be used for such purposes, it will need to model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y172 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws402">more properties of the target than will a child’<span class="_ _2"></span>s toy<span class="_ _2d"></span>. Design models are also </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y173 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws758">different from models of production-model cars or airplanes in that they </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y174 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">are typically built <span class="ff1f">before</span><span class="ls11 ws3d"> their targets. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y175 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws176">Scale models are also used in the sciences and in science classrooms. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws614">There are, for example, kits for building models of molecules, using balls </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ad">of different sizes and colors for the atoms and tubes for the bonds. These </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws759">are used to roughly approximate the geometric configurations of mole-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75a">cules, and as such, they allow both students and researchers to understand </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws588">structural properties of the molecules modeled and to explore what kinds </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws683">of molecular configurations are structurally possible. They serve as easily </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
