<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf5d" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="5d"><div class="pc pc5d w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y140 ff1d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5f9 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 xb0 h5 y5fa ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x8e h5 y5fb ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x7a h5 y5fc ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5fd ff1d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5fe ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x57 h5 y2db ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">Models <span class="_ _4f"> </span>101 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws103">perceived and readily understood surrogates for the real thing, fulfilling </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75b">heuristic, explanatory<span class="_ _2"></span>, and predictive functions. Of course, some of the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47e">relationships between elements of the model and their targets are purely </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws41c">conventional. The balls that represent carbon atoms may be black, those </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75c">that represent hydrogen atoms red, and so on, but the atoms themselves </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11c">do not possess color at all. The size ratios between the balls may not match </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws524">those between atoms, the atoms themselves are not homogeneous spheres </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66b">with holes for connectors, and the bonds are not physical solids. The mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3a4">eling kit affords modeling only of one set of properties of the molecules it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e0">is used to model—the physical, structural, and geometric properties, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws3c">those only roughly<span class="_ _2d"></span>. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y208 ff1d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">Idealization </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y209 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws5fb">However realistic the model, it is made in such a way that it models only a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wse9">subset of the features of the target system. (If it is <span class="ff1f ws0">exactly</span><span class="ls11 ws75d"> like a ’64 Mustang, </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsa8">it is the real thing, or a working prototype, or a reproduction, not a model. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75e">If we build something isomorphic to methanol using atoms of carbon, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws683">hydrogen, and oxygen, we are building an actual molecule of methanol, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws173">not a model.) W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e may say that in this sense the models are <span class="_ _4"></span><span class="ff1f ws0">idealized<span class="ff1e ls18 ws44c">. They </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsea">have elements corresponding to some elements of the system modeled and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws66b">permit relations and transformations corresponding to some of those char-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4b7">acteristic of the target system while differing in other properties. W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e can use </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3da">such models as a kind of stand-in for the real thing for various purposes. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws75f">But just what set of purposes they can effectively be used for depends on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6a3">what features are modeled. And hence, to use the model effectively<span class="_ _2d"></span>, one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws760">must understand how it is idealized and what it reproduces faithfully<span class="_ _2d"></span>. A </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws576">good scale model of a train may provide information about the relative </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws11c">size of the engine and caboose but cannot be used to accurately predict the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws186">real train’<span class="_ _2"></span>s structural integrity in a crash. A classroom model of an organic </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws184">molecule may provide information about its shape and what it can bond </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws761">with, but not about how the bonds of real molecules are formed or broken. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y174 ff1d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls18 ws0">Aptness </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y175 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1e8">W<span class="_ _2d"></span>e need a term for the suitability of a model to ser<span class="_ _2f"></span>ve as a stand-in for the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y176 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws47c">real thing with respect to a given task. As noted in chapter 5, I will speak </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y177 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws762">of this as the <span class="ff1f ws0">aptness</span><span class="ls11 ws258"> of a model. Aptness is always relative to a purpose. A </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y178 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2eb">model train is apt for modeling features like appearance and dimensions, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y179 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2df">but not for features like structural integrity<span class="_ _2d"></span>. A classroom model of a mol-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws763">ecule is apt for modeling features such as the rough geometry of molecules, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y17b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3b2">and for determining what molecular configurations are possible, but not for </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
