<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf5e" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="5e"><div class="pc pc5e w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x3a h5 y4f1 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y5ff ff1d fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5f0 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x9c h5 y600 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">102 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 6 </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws764">other features, like the nature or strength of the bonds. Indeed, the model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">may itself permit configurations or transformations that are impossible in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws283">the target system, or prohibit ones that are really possible. For example, it </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws765">may be possible to connect two balls with tubes representing a particular </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws729">type of bond when the molecules they are used to model cannot actually </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31d">be bonded in that way<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This, too, is a limit on the aptness of the model, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">a limitation on the purposes for which it may aptly be employed. Insofar </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws4fb">as the user understands these limitations, this amounts to a further way </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws3">the model is idealized. But insofar as the user is unaware of the potential </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws31a">problems, the model may be capable of misrepresenting what is modeled. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws14e">Indeed, if the model is badly constructed, it may even be forced to misrep-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">resent what is modeled. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h3 y209 ff1d fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws3d">Multiple Models and Incommensurability </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws766">There can, of course, be multiple scale models of the same type of object. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws767">For example, model trains come in different gauge sizes defined by different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y165 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws201">scales. The engineer’<span class="_ _2"></span>s model of a car or airplane will model different features </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws768">than will a toy model. T<span class="_ _2"></span>wo kits for modeling molecules may be in different </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws734">scales, use different materials, employ different coloring conventions, and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsae">use different types of connectors. The kinds of information available from </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y20f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws769">two models of the same type (say<span class="_ _2d"></span>, two HO-gauge train models or two mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y210 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws204">els of organic molecules using the same kit) will afford information about </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y211 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76a">comparisons (one engine is longer than another) or combinations (the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y212 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws33d">two molecules can or cannot be combined into a larger molecule). But the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y213 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws720">use of models of different types is more complicated. One cannot directly </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y214 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5ff">compare the length of two train engines using an HO-scale model of one </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y215 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws46b">and an O-scale model of another<span class="_ _2"></span>, though if one knows the scale of each, </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y216 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws29a">one can calculate and compare the sizes of the originals by using the mod-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y217 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws292">els, measuring, and applying algebraic calculations. Model molecules built </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y218 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76b">from different kits may allow some types of comparisons (the geometry<span class="_ _2"></span>, the </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y219 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76c">number of carbon atoms) but not allow the models to be used for other pur-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76d">poses: the two models’ failure to fit together into a larger molecular model </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws725">may be due to different scales or connectors that do not match and tell us </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws145">nothing about what chemical combinations are possible; or if the connec-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y1f7 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws227">tors do fit together by chance, the ways they do so may not correspond to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76e">actual physical possibilities, and the geometry of the resulting model will </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5d4">be incorrect if the components are of different scales. A mismatch between </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y21f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws76f">the types of models combined can thus result in artifacts, and two models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y220 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws5cb">may even be incommensurable in the sense that they cannot actually be </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y221 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls12 ws0">combined. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
