<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd" xml:lang="en">
<head>
 <title>Test document here</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_body">
<div id="pf62" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="62"><div class="pc pc62 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x6c h5 y160 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x12 h5 y2b1 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y2b2 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y163 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> <span class="_ _4"></span> </div><div class="t m0 xd1 h5 y60c ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y271 ff1e fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0"> </div><div class="t m0 x0 h2 ya5 ff1d fs1 fc1 sc0 ls0 ws0">106 <span class="_ _bf"> </span>Chapter 6 </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y5a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws509">The third map (fig. 6.3), an updated version of one I recall seeing on </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y5b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77d">trains when I lived in Boston, does not preserve the spatial relationships </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y102 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77e">between stations. T<span class="_ _2"></span>rain lines are represented (in the original) by distinctive </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y103 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6cd">colors as before, and stops with labeled dots. But the lines do not preserve </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y104 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws77f">the geometric properties of the routes—the north–south and east–west </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y105 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws223">directions or the comparative distances between stops. The map represents </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y106 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws780">the rail system <span class="ff1f ws0">topologically</span> rather than geometrically<span class="_ _2d"></span>. This is actually an </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y107 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws781">elegant way of presenting the information needed to quickly determine </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y108 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws782">how to get from one rail station to another<span class="_ _2d"></span>. In navigating by rail, one in fact </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y109 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">needs to <span class="ff1f">think topologically</span><span class="ls0">. </span></div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y10a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws73">The fourth map (fig. 6.4), of a more limited portion of Boston, is topo-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws783">graphic. It represents isotopic elevations with specially colored lines and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws784">marked with elevations, types of landform with colors, and landmarks with </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws785">labels. T<span class="_ _2d"></span>opographic maps are particularly useful for reconstructing three-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws786">dimensional features of a landscape from a two-dimensional map. While </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y10f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws105">their use is something of an acquired skill, they are useful for orienting </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y110 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws787">oneself to one’<span class="_ _2"></span>s environment, and for calculating elevation-dependent </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y111 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws788">affordances, like the steepness of a route, optimal locations for radio and </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y112 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">microwave towers, and patterns of water runoff. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y113 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws789">Each of these four maps represents certain features of the area it models </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y114 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws42">and abstracts away from others. Just <span class="ff1f ws0">what</span><span class="ls11 ws670"> is modeled differs from map to </span></div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y115 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2c7">map, and the choice of what to include and what to leave out has con-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y116 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws297">sequences for the purposes for which each map may aptly be employed. </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y117 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls11 ws4cf">Indeed, it is safe to assume that each map was carefully designed with a </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y118 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws188">particular set of practical purposes in mind, and the mapmakers sought to </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y119 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws9d">optimize each for use in a particular set of tasks. The kinds of information </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78a">needed by the driver<span class="_ _2"></span>, the rail passenger<span class="_ _2e"></span>, the cross-country hiker<span class="_ _2"></span>, and the city </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws2ad">planner are not the same. And a given type of information is made most </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws0">readily available by excluding from the map all unnecessary information. </div><div class="t m0 x76 h5 y11d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws344">Consider now a second set of maps (figs. 6.5 and 6.6). These are both </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y11e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 wsba">maps of the surface of the globe. Their most obvious difference is in how </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y147 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws44f">they project the surface of a sphere onto a flat surface. The skin of a spheri-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y148 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6d8">cal surface cannot simply be flattened onto a plane without distortion. One </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y149 ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78b">must either stretch it, or make cuts in it, or both. The first map, a Mercator </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14a ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78c">projection (fig. 6.5), is a result of something like stretching the surface. It </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14b ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws590">results in a rectangular map (or<span class="_ _2"></span>, more precisely<span class="_ _2"></span>, the surface of a curved por-</div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14c ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78d">tion of a cylinder flattened onto a rectangular plane), in which each latitude </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14d ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws78e">line is equally long, stretching from left to right. Since different latitude </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14e ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws1ff">lines are in fact of different lengths on the surface of a sphere, this results in </div><div class="t m0 x0 h5 y14f ff1e fs2 fc1 sc0 ls7 ws6ce">a geometric distortion. The map does not preserve the comparative areas of </div></div><div class="pi" data-data='{"ctm":[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}'></div></div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
