<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
<head>
<title>Spotlight 2 Entertainment education</title>
<link href="template.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
</head>
<body>
<div class="chapter" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5">
<h2 class="SpotNumber orange"><a id="page_76"/>Spotlight 2</h2>
<h2 class="chapterTitle orange">Entertainment education</h2>
<p class="noindent">Can exposure to media provide a source of sustained change and a means of promoting development? The evidence to date is limited but encouraging. The use of mass media for entertainment education creates an opportunity to affect not only the mental models of individual viewers but also the mental models accepted by the wider society that create the context for collective action. The links below provide examples of how entertainment education works:</p>

<ul class="bullet">
<li><span class="italic">Scandal!</span>, a South African soap opera with financial messages, including ones related to gambling: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ys5eSxTetF4&#x0026;noredirect=1">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ys5eSxTetF4&#x0026;noredirect=1</a> </li>
<li><span class="italic">16 and Pregnant</span>, a U.S. reality TV show on teen pregnancy: <a href="http://www.mtv.com/shows/16_and_pregnant/">http://www.mtv.com/shows/16_and_pregnant/</a> </li>
<li><span class="italic">Shuga</span>, an African drama on HIV/AIDS and gender violence: <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pI8_P_h89R8">http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pI8_P_h89R8</a> </li>
</ul>

<div id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.sec1" class="section">
<h3 class="secTitle orange">The theory behind entertainment education</h3>
<p class="noindent">The term <span class="italic">entertainment education</span> (EE) refers to entertainment media that incorporate an educational message or information of value to the audience to increase audience members&#x2019; knowledge about an issue, create favorable attitudes, and change overt behavior (Singhal and Rogers 2002; Moyer-Gus&#x00E9; 2008). The theoretical underpinnings for entertainment education are usually traced to the psychologist Albert Bandura, a pioneer in social cognitive theory (Bandura 1977, 1986). Bandura showed that children who viewed violent images on television demonstrated more aggressive behavior than those who viewed neutral content (Bandura, Ross, and Ross 1963). Observing the performance of others, people acquire not only patterns of behavior but also a cognitive framework about what the behaviors mean, according to Bandura&#x2019;s research.</p>
<p class="indent">Most of the research on entertainment education has focused on narratives such as dramas and soap operas. A narrative or story format can help motivate change in the audience by showing positive role models who experience &#x201C;rewards&#x201D; and negative role models who are &#x201C;punished&#x201D; (Slater and Rouner 2002; Bandura 2004). A third type of role model&#x2014;the transitional character&#x2014;who gradually moves from negative to positive behaviors during the story&#x2014;may also be important (Sabido 2002).<sup><a href="part1.ch5.xhtml#WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn1" id="bck_WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn1" class="xreffn">1</a></sup> Narratives using these constructs from EE can help guide audience members through a change process, including developing confidence in their own abilities (self-efficacy) through association with desirable characters, and can facilitate behavior change.</p>
<p class="indent">Entertainment education may be especially effective when people are swept up in a narrative, or experience the story as though they were one of the characters. There is evidence that when individuals are absorbed in a narrative, they become less critical and defensive and are more open to persuasion (Green and Brock 2000; Slater and Rouner 2002). Identification with a specific character works in a similar way; it involves a temporary loss of self and adoption of the character&#x2019;s perspective. Because identification is not compatible with counterarguing, persuasive messages are more easily accepted (Cohen 2001; Moyer-Gus&#x00E9; 2008). Evidence also suggests that people find entertainment more enjoyable when they can be transported beyond themselves and identify with the situation of the character (de Wied, Zillmann, and Ordman 1994; Hall and Bracken 2011).</p>
<p class="indent">A media program&#x2019;s ability to persuade may also be affected by the social context in which it is consumed. Aspirational videos shown in rural Ethiopia were more effective when more people in the community were exposed to the content (Bernard and others 2014). In the United States, teens who watched, with a parent or other trusted adult, a comedy that included information on contraception reported greater gains in knowledge (Collins and others 2003) because the program stimulated a discussion, which provided further information.</p>
</div>

<div id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.sec2" class="section">
<h3 class="secTitle orange">Evidence of impact</h3>
<p class="noindent">While there are many studies of entertainment education, only a relatively small number employ rigorous quantitative methods, such as randomized controlled trials (RCTs).<sup><a href="part1.ch5.xhtml#WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn2" id="bck_WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn2" class="xreffn">2</a></sup> Among recent studies using RCTs, positive impacts were found from an in-script partnership with a South African soap opera relating to financial attitudes and behaviors, from videos shown in Ethiopia to induce future-oriented investments such as education for children, and from a radio drama in Rwanda that improved perceptions of social norms such as cooperation and willingness to engage in dialogue, even on sensitive topics. Other RCTs, however, have not provided significant evidence of impact, including a film shown in Nigeria and a comic book in Kenya, both featuring financial messages.</p>
<p class="indent">Some of the most compelling evidence for EE comes from studies that use quasi-experimental methods to evaluate the impact of entertainment education across a society. For example, in Brazil, access to the TV Globo network&#x2014;which was dominated by soap operas with independent female characters with few, or even no children&#x2014;has been linked to the country&#x2019;s rapid drop in fertility. Viewing the soap operas had an effect equal to 1.6 years of additional education (La Ferrara, Chong, and Duryea 2012). In India, access to cable television reduced fertility and son preference and increased women&#x2019;s autonomy (Jensen and Oster 2009). A radio program in Tanzania was linked to a significant increase in condom <a id="page_77"/>use and a reduction in the number of sexual partners (Vaughan and others 2000). And in the United States, a reality TV show was linked to a significant drop in teen pregnancy (Kearney and Levine 2014).</p>
</div>

<div id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.sec3" class="section">
<h3 class="secTitle orange">Business models for entertainment education</h3>
<p class="noindent">In Latin America, private television channels have been producing a number of commercially successful <span class="italic">telenovelas</span> with social content since the 1970s. In most other developing country markets, the main approach to entertainment education has been through the public sector or donor-funded productions. Many successful examples of entertainment education have been produced in this way: <span class="italic">Hum Log, Kalyani</span>, and <span class="italic">Taru</span> in India; <span class="italic">Meena</span> in South Asia; and <span class="italic">Twende na Wakati</span> in Tanzania, to name a few.</p>
<p class="indent">However, with many markets now saturated with media, it is more challenging to break through and create impact with a single show. New approaches to entertainment education focus on partnerships between the public and private sectors and civil society to increase audience size, overcome the high cost of media production, and strengthen social impact (Miller 2011). In some cases, this is happening at the firm level in media companies committed to social action, such as Well Told Story in Kenya and Participant Media in the United States. Organizations that seek to increase the systematic use of EE in the commercial entertainment industry have also been formed in the United States, Europe, and recently in India. These nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) seek to bridge the gap that typically exists between content experts in academia or government and media producers (Bouman 1999) through a variety of methods, from intensive collaboration on scripts to soft-touch approaches such as after-hours &#x201C;salons.&#x201D;</p>
</div>

<div class="fngroup" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1">
<p class="fntitle orange">Notes</p>
<p class="fn"><a href="#bck_WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn1" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn1"><span class="fnlabel">1</span></a>. Miguel Sabido is a Mexican playwright and television producer who was the first to take Bandura&#x2019;s social learning theory and apply it to mass entertainment media in the 1970s and 1980s in Mexico. The resulting <span class="italic">telenovelas</span> (<span class="italic">Ven Conmigo, Acompa&#x00F1;ame</span>, and others) were both extremely popular and credited with having an impact on key social issues such as adult literacy and family planning (Nariman and Rogers 1993).</p>
<p class="fn"><a href="#bck_WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn2" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.fn-group1.fn2"><span class="fnlabel">2</span></a>. A <span class="italic">World Development Report 2015</span> background paper, &#x201C;The Impact of Entertainment Education,&#x201D; provides more detailed analysis of the entertainment education literature, including evidence of results.</p>
</div>

<div class="references" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1">
<p class="reftitle orange">References</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit1">Bandura, Albert, . 1977. &#x201C;Self-Efficacy: Toward a Unifying Theory of Behavioral Change.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Psychological Review</span></span> 84 (2): 191.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit2">Bandura, Albert, . 1986. <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Social Foundations of Thought and Action</span></span>. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit3">Bandura, Albert, . 2004. &#x201C;Health Promotion by Social Cognitive Means.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Health Education &#x0026; Behavior</span></span> 31 (2): 143 &#x2013;64.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit4">Bandura, Albert, Dorothea Ross, Sheila A. Ross, . 1963. &#x201C;Imitation of Film-Mediated Aggressive Models.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology</span></span> 66 (1): 3.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit5">Bernard, Tanguy, Stefan Dercon, Kate Orkin, Alemayehu Seyoum Taffesse, . 2014. &#x201C;<span class="italic">The Future in Mind: Aspirations and Forward-Looking Behaviour in Rural Ethiopia</span>.&#x201D; Centre for the Study of African Economies, University of Oxford, Oxford.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit6">Bouman, Martine, . 1999. &#x201C;<span class="italic">The Turtle and the Peacock: Collaboration for Prosocial Change: The Entertainment-Education Strategy on Television</span>.&#x201D; PhD dissertation, Landbouw Universiteit.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit7">Cohen, Jonathan, . 2001. &#x201C;Defining Identification: A Theoretical Look at the Identification of Audiences with Media Characters.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Mass Communication &#x0026; Society</span></span> 4 (3): 245 &#x2013;64.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit8">Collins, Rebecca L., Marc N. Elliott, Sandra H. Berry, David E. Kanouse, Sarah B. Hunter, . 2003. &#x201C;Entertainment Television as a Healthy Sex Educator: The Impact of Condom-Efficacy Information in an Episode of Friends.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Pediatrics</span></span> 112 (5): 1115 &#x2013;21.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit9">de Wied, M., D. Zillmann, V. Ordman, . 1994. &#x201C;The Role of Empathic Distress in the Enjoyment of Cinematic Tragedy.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Poetics</span></span> 23 (1): 91 &#x2013;106.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit10">Green, Melanie C., Timothy C. Brock, . 2000. &#x201C;The Role of Transportation in the Persuasiveness of Public Narratives.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span></span> 79 (5): 701.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit11">Hall, Alice E., Cheryl C. Bracken, . 2011. &#x201C;&#x2018;I Really Liked That Movie&#x2019;: Testing the Relationship between Trait Empathy, Transportation, Perceived Realism, and Movie Enjoyment.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Journal of Media Psychology: Theories, Methods, and Applications</span></span> 23 (2): 90.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit12">Jensen, Robert, Emily Oster, . 2009. &#x201C;The Power of TV: Cable Television and Women&#x2019;s Status in India.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Quarterly Journal of Economics</span></span> 124 (3): 1057 &#x2013;94.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit13">Kearney, Melissa S., Phillip B. Levine, . 2014. &#x201C;<span class="italic">Media Influences on Social Outcomes: The Impact of MTV&#x2019;s &#x2018;16 and Pregnant&#x2019; on Teen Childbearing</span>.&#x201D; National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit14">La Ferrara, Eliana, Alberto Chong, Suzanne Duryea, . 2012. &#x201C;Soap Operas and Fertility: Evidence from Brazil.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">American Economic Journal: Applied Economics</span></span> 4 (4): 1 &#x2013;31.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit15">Miller, Margaret, . 2011. &#x201C;<span class="italic">Entertainment Education: A Solution for Cost-Effective High-Impact Development Communication</span>.&#x201D; World Bank, Washington, DC.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit16">Moyer-Gus&#x00E9;, Emily, . 2008. &#x201C;Toward a Theory of Entertainment Persuasion: Explaining the Persuasive Effects of Entertainment-Education Messages.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Communication Theory</span></span> 18 (3): 407 &#x2013;25.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit17">Nariman, Heidi Noel, Everett M. Rogers, . 1993. <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Soap Operas for Social Change: Toward a Methodology for Entertainment-Education Television</span></span>. Westport, CT: Praeger.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit18">Sabido, Miguel, . 2002. <span class="italic"><span class="italic">El tono: Andanzas te&#x00F3;ricas, aventuras pr&#x00E1;cticas, el entretenimiento con beneficio social</span></span>. Mexico City: UNAM.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit19">Singhal, Arvind, Everett M. Rogers, . 2002. &#x201C;A Theoretical Agenda for Entertainment-Education.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Communication Theory</span></span> 12 (2): 117 &#x2013;35.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit20">Slater, Michael D., Donna Rouner, . 2002. &#x201C;Entertainment- Education and Elaboration Likelihood: Understanding the Processing of Narrative Persuasion.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Communication Theory</span></span> 12 (2): 173 &#x2013;91.</p>
<p class="citation" id="WB.978-1-4648-0342-0.part1.ch5.ref-list1.cit21">Vaughan, Peter W., Everett M. Rogers, Arvind Singhal, Ramadhan M. Swalehe, . 2000. &#x201C;Entertainment-Education and HIV/AIDS Prevention: A Field Experiment in Tanzania.&#x201D; <span class="italic"><span class="italic">Journal of Health Communication</span></span> 5 (Supplement): 81 &#x2013;100.</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>