<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" prefix="schema: http://schema.org/ rdf: http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns# xsd: http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema# sa: http://ns.science.ai# scienceai: https://science.ai/ pur: http://prismstandard.org/namespaces/pur/3.0/" lang="en">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
      <title property="schema:name">Risk Factors, Mortality, and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/index.css" />
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/mms.css" />
      <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
   </head>
   <body>
      <article vocab="http://schema.org/" resource="scienceai:article" typeof="schema:ScholarlyArticle">
         <section property="sa:articleFrontMatter" epub:type="frontmatter" datatype="rdf:HTML">
            <header>
               <div class="masthead" role="contentinfo">
                  <div class="logo"></div>
                  <div class="publisher-name">Massachusetts Medical Society</div>
                  <div class="citation"><span property="schema:isPartOf" typeof="schema:PublicationIssue"><span typeof="schema:Periodical"><span property="schema:name">New England Journal of Medicine</span><br />Volume <span property="schema:isPartOf" typeof="schema:PublicationVolume"><span property="schema:volumeNumber">379</span></span>, Issue <span property="schema:issueNumber">7</span></span></span>, <span property="schema:datePublished">16 August 2018</span>, Pages <span property="schema:pageStart">633</span>-<span property="schema:pageEnd">644</span></div>
                  <div class="doi"><a href="https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1800256" property="schema:sameAs">https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1800256</a></div>
               </div>
               <div class="article-type" role="contentinfo">Original Article</div>
               <h1 property="schema:name" epub:type="title">Risk Factors, Mortality, and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes</h1>
            </header>
            <div class="authors-and-affiliations" role="contentinfo">
               <div xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" class="contrib-group">
                  <div class="contributors"><span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Aidin</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Rawshani</span>, M.D.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Araz</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Rawshani</span>, M.D., Ph.D.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Stefan</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Franzén</span>, Ph.D.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Naveed</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Sattar</span>, M.D., Ph.D.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Björn</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Eliasson</span>, M.D., Ph.D.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Ann-Marie</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Svensson</span>, Ph.D.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Björn</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Zethelius</span>, M.D., Ph.D.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Mervete</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Miftaraj</span>, M.Sc.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Darren K.</span> <span property="schema:familyName">McGuire</span>, M.D., M.H.Sc.</span>, <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Annika</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Rosengren</span>, M.D., Ph.D.</span>, and <span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">Soffia</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Gudbjörnsdottir</span>, M.D., Ph.D.</span></div>
               </div>
            </div>
            <section xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" id="abstract" property="schema:detailedDescription" typeof="sa:Abstract" role="doc-abstract" epub:type="abstract">
               <h2 property="schema:name">Abstract</h2>
               <section>
                  <h3 property="schema:name">Background</h3>
                  <div property="schema:text" role="paragraph">Patients with diabetes are at higher risk for death and cardiovascular outcomes than
                     the general population. We investigated whether the excess risk of death and cardiovascular
                     events among patients with type 2 diabetes could be reduced or eliminated.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section>
                  <h3 property="schema:name">Methods</h3>
                  <div property="schema:text" role="paragraph">In a cohort study, we included 271,174 patients with type 2 diabetes who were registered
                     in the Swedish National Diabetes Register and matched them with 1,355,870 controls
                     on the basis of age, sex, and county. We assessed patients with diabetes according
                     to age categories and according to the presence of five risk factors (elevated glycated
                     hemoglobin level, elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level, albuminuria,
                     smoking, and elevated blood pressure). Cox regression was used to study the excess
                     risk of outcomes (death, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, and hospitalization
                     for heart failure) associated with smoking and the number of variables outside target
                     ranges. We also examined the relationship between various risk factors and cardiovascular
                     outcomes.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section>
                  <h3 property="schema:name">Results</h3>
                  <div property="schema:text" role="paragraph">The median follow-up among all the study participants was 5.7 years, during which
                     175,345 deaths occurred. Among patients with type 2 diabetes, the excess risk of outcomes
                     decreased stepwise for each risk-factor variable within the target range. Among patients
                     with diabetes who had all five variables within target ranges, the hazard ratio for
                     death from any cause, as compared with controls, was 1.06 (95% confidence interval
                     [CI], 1.00 to 1.12), the hazard ratio for acute myocardial infarction was 0.84 (95%
                     CI, 0.75 to 0.93), and the hazard ratio for stroke was 0.95 (95% CI, 0.84 to 1.07).
                     The risk of hospitalization for heart failure was consistently higher among patients
                     with diabetes than among controls (hazard ratio, 1.45; 95% CI, 1.34 to 1.57). In patients
                     with type 2 diabetes, a glycated hemoglobin level outside the target range was the
                     strongest predictor of stroke and acute myocardial infarction; smoking was the strongest
                     predictor of death.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section>
                  <h3 property="schema:name">Conclusions</h3>
                  <div property="schema:text" role="paragraph">Patients with type 2 diabetes who had five risk-factor variables within the target
                     ranges appeared to have little or no excess risk of death, myocardial infarction,
                     or stroke, as compared with the general population. (Funded by the Swedish Association
                     of Local Authorities and Regions and others.)
                  </div>
               </section>
            </section>
            <hr />
            <section id="frontmatter-notes">
               <p xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">From the Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Institute of Medicine (Aidin
                  Rawshani, Araz Rawshani, B.E., A. Rosengren, S.G.), and the Health Metrics Unit, Sahlgrenska
                  Academy (S.F.), University of Gothenburg, and the Swedish National Diabetes Register,
                  Center of Registers in Region (Aidin Rawshani, Araz Rawshani, S.F., B.E., A.-M.S.,
                  M.M., S.G.), Gothenburg, and the Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences–Geriatrics,
                  Uppsala University, and the Swedish Medical Products Agency, Uppsala (B.Z.) — all
                  in Sweden; the Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow,
                  Glasgow, United Kingdom (N.S.); and the Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal
                  Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas (D.K.M.).
               </p>
               <p>Copyright © 2018 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved.</p>
               <ul>
                  <li>Address reprint requests to Dr. Aidin Rawshani at the Swedish National Diabetes Register
                     Region of Västra Götaland, Medicinaregatan 18G, Gothenburg 413 45, Sweden, or at <a href="mailto:aidin.rawshani@gu.se">aidin.rawshani@gu.se</a>.
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </section>
         </section>
         <section property="schema:articleBody" datatype="rdf:HTML">
            <div role="paragraph">Type 2 diabetes is a complex disease that leads to continuous medical care with comprehensive,
               multifactorial strategies for reducing cardiovascular risk. Patients with type 2 diabetes
               have risks of death and cardiovascular events that are 2 to 4 times as great as the
               risks in the general population.<sup><a href="#r1" epub:type="biblioref">1</a></sup> Results from randomized trials support a range of interventions that target isolated
               risk factors such as elevated levels of glycated hemoglobin, blood pressure, and cholesterol
               to prevent or postpone complications of type 2 diabetes. The Steno-2 Study investigated
               the effects of multifactorial risk-factor control by means of behavior modification
               and pharmacologic therapy and showed long-lasting reductions in the risks of death
               and cardiovascular events among patients in whom these risks were reduced, as compared
               with patients who had been randomly assigned to usual care.<sup><a href="#r2" epub:type="biblioref">2</a>,<a href="#r3" epub:type="biblioref">3</a></sup></div>
            <div role="paragraph">The extent to which the excess risk associated with type 2 diabetes may be mitigated,
               or potentially eliminated, by contemporary evidence-based treatment and multifactorial
               risk-factor modification is unclear. In a nationwide cohort, we evaluated the association
               between the excess risks of death and cardiovascular outcomes among patients with
               type 2 diabetes, according to the number of risk-factor variables within therapeutic
               guideline levels, as compared with controls who were matched for age, sex, and county
               in Sweden. Risk-factor data were not available for controls.
            </div>
            <div role="paragraph">In ancillary analyses, we estimated the strength of the associations between various
               risk factors and the incremental risks of death and cardiovascular outcomes associated
               with diabetes. Moreover, we examined the association between selected risk-factor
               variables such as levels of glycated hemoglobin, systolic blood pressure, and low-density
               lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol within evidence-based target ranges and these outcomes.
            </div>
            <section id="sc1">
               <h2>Methods</h2>
               <section id="sc1.1">
                  <h3>Study Design and Support</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph">The Regional Ethics Review Board of Gothenburg, Sweden, approved the study. All the
                     patients provided written informed consent before inclusion in the Swedish National
                     Diabetes Register. The Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions and other
                     nonprofit agencies supported the study; no industry support was provided.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section id="sc1.2">
                  <h3>Data Sources and Study Cohort</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph">The Swedish National Diabetes Register has been described previously.<sup><a href="#r1" epub:type="biblioref">1</a>,<a href="#r4" epub:type="biblioref">4</a></sup> Type 2 diabetes was defined according to epidemiologic criteria — treatment with
                     diet, with or without the use of oral antihyperglycemic agents, or treatment with
                     insulin, with or without the use of oral antihyperglycemic agents. The latter category
                     (insulin use) applied only to patients who were 40 years of age or older at the time
                     of diagnosis. Patients with at least one entry in the register between January 1,
                     1998, and December 31, 2012, were included in the study. At baseline (defined as the
                     first entry in the register), each patient with type 2 diabetes was matched for age,
                     sex, and county with five controls without diabetes who were randomly selected from
                     the Swedish population register by Statistics Sweden.
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">We constructed two cohorts of patients with type 2 diabetes. One cohort excluded patients
                     with previous stroke, acute myocardial infarction, or amputation; those who had undergone
                     dialysis or renal transplantation; and those with a body-mass index (the weight in
                     kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters) of less than 18.5. The second
                     cohort of patients with type 2 diabetes had exclusion criteria that were similar to
                     those of the first cohort but also excluded patients with previous coronary heart
                     disease, atrial fibrillation, or heart failure. Controls who met any of these criteria
                     were excluded without the exclusion of their matched patient.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section id="sc1.3">
                  <h3>Outcomes</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph">We assessed death from any cause, fatal or nonfatal acute myocardial infarction (henceforth
                     referred to as acute myocardial infarction), fatal or nonfatal stroke (henceforth
                     referred to as stroke), and hospitalization for heart failure. Outcomes were identified
                     in hospital discharge records with use of codes in the <em>International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision</em> and <em>10th Revision</em>. The specific codes are listed in Table S1 in the Supplementary Appendix, available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org. Patients were followed
                     until an event occurred or until December 31, 2013, for all the outcomes except for
                     death from any cause, for which follow-up ended on December 31, 2014.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section id="sc1.4">
                  <h3>Statistical Analysis</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph">Crude incidence rates were calculated according to the number of risk-factor variables
                     within target ranges and are presented as events per 10,000 patient-years of observation
                     with exact Poisson confidence intervals of 95%. We constructed Cox regression models
                     and included baseline values in the models. All the models were adjusted for socioeconomic
                     variables (income, marital status, immigrant status, and educational level), with
                     stratification according to sex to allow for different underlying baseline hazards
                     among men and women, and age was used as the time scale. Some models were adjusted
                     for preexisting conditions. For death from any cause, we adjusted for coronary heart
                     disease and heart failure; for myocardial infarction, we adjusted for atrial fibrillation
                     and heart failure; for stroke, we adjusted for atrial fibrillation, heart failure,
                     and coronary heart disease; and for hospitalization for heart failure, we adjusted
                     for atrial fibrillation and coronary heart disease.
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">For the main analyses, we estimated the risk of each outcome among patients with type
                     2 diabetes, according to the number of risk-factor variables within target ranges,
                     as compared with the controls matched for age, sex, and county. We defined whether
                     the risk-factor variables were within target ranges on the basis of guideline-recommended
                     target levels.<sup><a href="#r5" epub:type="biblioref">5</a>,<a href="#r6" epub:type="biblioref">6</a></sup> The regression models included the covariable “category,” which denoted the number
                     of risk-factor variables that were not within the target range (scale, none to five
                     variables). The following five risk factors were considered: the glycated hemoglobin
                     level (cutoff value, ≥7.0% or ≥53 mmol per mole), systolic and diastolic blood pressure
                     (cutoff value, ≥140 mm Hg for systolic blood pressure or ≥80 for diastolic blood pressure),
                     albuminuria (the presence of microalbuminuria or macroalbuminuria), smoking (being
                     a current smoker at study entry), and the LDL cholesterol level (cutoff value, ≥2.5
                     mmol per liter [97 mg per deciliter]).
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">We constructed a separate Cox model for each age category, according to age at baseline:
                     younger than 55 years of age, 55 years to younger than 65 years of age, 65 years to
                     younger than 80 years of age, and 80 years of age or older. We adjusted for the duration
                     of diabetes by assigning matched controls a duration of 0 years, and patients with
                     type 2 diabetes had their duration of diabetes centralized around the grand mean (the
                     mean duration among all the study participants).
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">Among patients with type 2 diabetes, we analyzed the relative importance of the risk
                     factors. Relative importance provides an estimate of how important each risk factor
                     is in terms of predicting the outcome. Several methods are available for this task;
                     we chose to calculate the relative importance as measured by the R<sup>2</sup> values of the models,<sup><a href="#r7" epub:type="biblioref">7</a></sup> and we tested the consistency of the results by calculating the explainable log-likelihood
                     that was attributable to each risk factor.
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">We assessed the level associated with the lowest risk, given the glycated hemoglobin
                     level, systolic blood pressure, and LDL cholesterol level, by modeling the association
                     between each risk factor and the outcomes using restricted cubic splines. The evidence-based
                     target level was set as the reference for each risk factor; not smoking was set as
                     the reference for smoking status.
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">Missing data were imputed with the multivariate imputation by chained equations (MICE)
                     algorithm. We imputed five complete data sets; a list of the variables that were used
                     in the imputation model is provided in Table S3 in the Supplementary Appendix. The estimates from each imputed data set were combined into one overall estimate
                     with the use of Rubin’s rule. Figures S4 and S5 in the Supplementary Appendix show the frequency of missing-data elements and the distribution of each variable
                     before and after the imputation. For the main analysis, we pooled the results across
                     all five imputed data sets; the results of the analyses with the imputed data sets
                     were virtually identical to those in the cohort with complete cases and were thus
                     consistent with a complete-case analysis. For the ancillary analyses, we used the
                     first imputed data set. All the analyses were performed with the use of RStudio software,
                     version 3.2.3.
                  </div>
               </section>
            </section>
            <section id="sc2">
               <h2>Results</h2>
               <section id="sc2.1">
                  <h3>Study Population</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph">A total of 433,619 patients with type 2 diabetes and 2,168,095 controls were identified,
                     and 271,174 patients with type 2 diabetes and 1,355,870 matched controls were included
                     in the study (Fig. S1 in the Supplementary Appendix). The median follow-up among all the study participants was 5.7 years, during which
                     175,345 deaths occurred. The baseline characteristics of the patients with complete
                     data on all five risk factors (96,673 patients with diabetes [35.6%]) and their matched
                     controls are presented in <a href="t1.xhtml">Table 1</a>. The number of patients in each risk-factor group in the imputed data sets is also
                     shown in <a href="t1.xhtml">Table 1</a>. The complete data regarding the characteristics of the participants at baseline
                     are presented in Table S4 in the Supplementary Appendix.
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">The mean age of the patients was 60.60 years, and 47,777 of 96,673 patients (49.4%)
                     were women. Table S5 in the Supplementary Appendix shows the baseline characteristics of the patients for whom data were missing for
                     at least one risk factor. Figure S6 in the Supplementary Appendix shows the trends in risk factors over the period from 1998 through 2012, and Figure
                     S7 in the Supplementary Appendix shows how causes of death varied among the groups according to the number of risk-factor
                     variables in the target ranges.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section id="sc2.2">
                  <h3>Risk of Cardiovascular Events</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph">A total of 37,825 patients with diabetes (13.9%) and 137,520 controls (10.1%) died
                     during the study period. The numbers of events, incidence rates, and hazard ratios
                     for all the outcomes among patients with diabetes, as compared with controls, at increasing
                     numbers of risk-factor variables, as well as the risks of death among men and women,
                     are presented in Table S2 in the Supplementary Appendix.
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph"><a href="f1.xhtml">Figure 1</a> shows the adjusted hazard ratios for the outcomes, according to age category and
                     the number of risk-factor variables within target ranges, among patients with diabetes
                     as compared with matched controls. The results show a stepwise increase in the hazard
                     ratios for each additional variable that was not within the target range among patients
                     with diabetes, and the incremental risks of cardiovascular events and death that were
                     associated with diabetes decreased in a stepwise fashion from younger to older age
                     groups. Patients with diabetes who were 80 years of age or older at baseline had the
                     lowest incremental risk of cardiovascular events and death, as compared with controls.
                     In the overall cohort, patients with type 2 diabetes who had no risk-factor variables
                     outside the target ranges had a marginally higher risk of death than the controls
                     (hazard ratio, 1.06; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.00 to 1.12).
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">Patients with diabetes who were 80 years of age or older at baseline and had no risk
                     factors outside target ranges had the lowest hazard ratio, as compared with controls,
                     for acute myocardial infarction across all the groups (hazard ratio, 0.72; 95% CI,
                     0.49 to 1.07) (<a href="f1.xhtml">Figure 1B</a>). Overall, patients with type 2 diabetes who had no risk-factor variables outside
                     the target ranges had a lower risk of acute myocardial infarction than the matched
                     controls (hazard ratio, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.75 to 0.93). Corresponding estimates for the
                     excess risk of stroke are shown in <a href="f1.xhtml">Figure 1C</a>. The overall hazard ratio for stroke among patients with no risk-factor variables
                     outside the target ranges, as compared with controls, was 0.95 (95% CI, 0.84 to 1.07)
                     (Table S2 in the Supplementary Appendix). Similar to the findings with acute myocardial infarction, there was a higher incremental
                     risk of stroke in the younger age categories and for each variable that was not within
                     the target range. Estimates regarding hospitalization for heart failure are shown
                     in <a href="f1.xhtml">Figure 1D</a>. Patients with type 2 diabetes who were younger than 55 years of age and had all
                     five risk-factor variables outside the target ranges had the highest excess risk of
                     hospitalization for heart failure of all the outcomes assessed (hazard ratio vs. control,
                     11.35; 95% CI, 7.16 to 18.01). The overall hazard ratio for hospitalization for heart
                     failure among patients with no risk-factor variables outside the target ranges, as
                     compared with controls, was 1.45 (95% CI, 1.34 to 1.57) (Table S2 in the Supplementary Appendix).
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section id="sc2.3">
                  <h3>Risk-Factor Strength and Levels in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph"><a href="f2.xhtml">Figure 2A</a> shows the predictors with the apparent greatest importance with regard to death from
                     any cause. The five strongest predictors regarding the risk of death among patients
                     with type 2 diabetes were smoking, physical activity, marital status, glycated hemoglobin
                     level, and use of statins (lipid-lowering medication). The data shown in <a href="f3.xhtml">Figure 3A</a> suggest that lower glycated hemoglobin levels than are currently recommended in guidelines
                     were associated with a lower risk of death.
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">The strongest predictors regarding the risk of acute myocardial infarction were the
                     glycated hemoglobin level, systolic blood pressure, LDL cholesterol level, physical
                     activity, and smoking (<a href="f2.xhtml">Figure 2B</a>). These risk factors showed a linear association with the risk of acute myocardial
                     infarction (<a href="f3.xhtml">Figure 3B</a>).
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">The strongest predictors regarding the risk of stroke were the glycated hemoglobin
                     level, systolic blood pressure, duration of diabetes, physical activity, and atrial
                     fibrillation (<a href="f2.xhtml">Figure 2C</a>). Levels below the guideline target levels for glycated hemoglobin and systolic blood
                     pressure were associated with lower risks of stroke (<a href="f3.xhtml">Figure 3C</a>).
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">Hospitalization for heart failure was predicted primarily by atrial fibrillation and
                     a body-mass index outside the target range; a low estimated glomerular filtration
                     rate and high glycated hemoglobin level were also strong predictors of this outcome
                     (<a href="f2.xhtml">Figure 2D</a>). The risk of hospitalization for heart failure was marginally lower at glycated
                     hemoglobin levels of less than 53 mmol per mole (<a href="f3.xhtml">Figure 3D</a>).
                  </div>
                  <div role="paragraph">The glycated hemoglobin level was the strongest or the second strongest predictor
                     regarding the risk of the outcomes in five of the eight models (<a href="f2.xhtml">Figure 2</a>). Smoking was the strongest predictor of death.
                  </div>
               </section>
               <section id="sc2.4">
                  <h3>Relative Risk-Factor Strength and Explained Log Likelihood</h3>
                  <div role="paragraph">Figures S2 and S3 in the Supplementary Appendix show the relative strength of the associations for predictors of cardiovascular outcomes
                     in patients with type 2 diabetes, with or without preexisting conditions, with the
                     use of explained log-likelihood. The results were broadly consistent with the results
                     obtained with the use of explained relative risk (R<sup>2</sup>) models.
                  </div>
               </section>
            </section>
            <section id="sc3">
               <h2>Discussion</h2>
               <div role="paragraph">Our analysis of Swedish nationwide registry data from 1998 through 2012 showed that
                  patients with type 2 diabetes and five selected risk-factor variables within target
                  range had, at most, marginally higher risks of death, stroke, and myocardial infarction
                  than the general population. The study indicates that having all five risk-factor
                  variables within the target ranges could theoretically eliminate the excess risk of
                  acute myocardial infarction. However, there was a substantial excess risk of hospitalization
                  for heart failure among patients who had all the variables within target ranges. We
                  identified a monotonic relationship among younger age, increasing number of variables
                  not within target ranges, and a higher relative risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
                  The results suggest that there may be greater potential gains from more aggressive
                  treatment in younger patients with diabetes.
               </div>
               <div role="paragraph">The following risk factors were considered to be the strongest predictors for cardiovascular
                  outcomes and death: low physical activity, smoking, and glycated hemoglobin, systolic
                  blood-pressure, and LDL cholesterol levels outside the target ranges. Using real-world
                  data, we found that levels of glycated hemoglobin, systolic blood pressure, and LDL
                  cholesterol that were lower than target levels were associated with lower risks of
                  acute myocardial infarction and stroke.
               </div>
               <div role="paragraph">Randomized trials investigating the effect of multifactorial cardiovascular risk-factor
                  intervention in patients with type 2 diabetes are scarce, and contemporary studies
                  were designed to measure the cumulative incidence of cardiovascular events among patients
                  with various risk factors (e.g., hyperglycemia, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and microalbuminuria)
                  who received intensive therapy, as compared with those who received conventional therapy.<sup><a href="#r2" epub:type="biblioref">2</a>,<a href="#r3" epub:type="biblioref">3</a>,<a href="#r8" epub:type="biblioref">8</a>,<a href="#r9" epub:type="biblioref">9</a></sup> Observational studies and randomized trials have shown inconsistent evidence of effects
                  of glycated hemoglobin levels below contemporary guideline levels (&lt;7.0%) with regard
                  to cardiovascular events and death.<sup><a href="#r10 r11 r12 r13 r14 r15" epub:type="biblioref">10-15</a></sup></div>
               <div role="paragraph">In the present analyses, a glycated hemoglobin level outside the target range was
                  a strong predictor for all outcomes, especially for atherothrombotic events, which
                  shows the importance of dysglycemia with regard to these complications. Low physical
                  activity was also a strong predictor of cardiovascular outcomes and death, but randomized
                  trials have not shown long-lasting beneficial effects from increased physical activity
                  in patients with diabetes.<sup><a href="#r16 r17 r18" epub:type="biblioref">16-18</a></sup></div>
               <div role="paragraph">With regard to hospitalization for heart failure, the present analyses showed that
                  the presence of atrial fibrillation, a high body-mass index, and a glycated hemoglobin
                  level and renal function outside the target ranges were the strongest predictors.
                  These findings indicate that cardiorenal mechanisms may contribute to the development
                  of heart failure in patients with type 2 diabetes. A high body-mass index was a stronger
                  risk factor for heart failure than for other outcomes, which may explain why the risks
                  associated with this outcome may continue to be higher among patients with type 2
                  diabetes than among controls, since patients with diabetes are, on average, heavier
                  than compared controls.
               </div>
               <div role="paragraph">Our study shows, in accordance with previous studies, that lower systolic blood pressure
                  is associated with lower risks of cardiovascular outcomes and death.<sup><a href="#r19" epub:type="biblioref">19</a></sup> The Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT) showed that systolic blood-pressure
                  targets below guideline levels in patients without diabetes were associated with a
                  lower risk of cardiovascular outcomes and death.<sup><a href="#r20" epub:type="biblioref">20</a></sup> However, the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial examined
                  the same systolic blood-pressure targets in patients with type 2 diabetes (&lt;120 mm
                  Hg vs. &lt;140 mm Hg) and did not show a significant effect on cardiovascular mortality.<sup><a href="#r15" epub:type="biblioref">15</a>,<a href="#r21" epub:type="biblioref">21</a></sup> Our analysis implies that systolic blood pressure is a central factor for virtually
                  all outcomes in patients with diabetes, and lower levels of systolic blood pressure
                  are associated with significantly lower risks of acute myocardial infarction and stroke
                  among patients with diabetes. The assessment of systolic blood pressure and its relation
                  to death and heart failure is more difficult, owing to potential reverse causality.
                  More-specific trials of blood-pressure reduction to differential targets in patients
                  with type 2 diabetes may be warranted.<sup><a href="#r20" epub:type="biblioref">20</a>,<a href="#r22" epub:type="biblioref">22</a></sup></div>
               <div role="paragraph">Our observational study has several strengths but also some notable limitations. Almost
                  all the patients with type 2 diabetes in Sweden were included. The epidemiologic definitions
                  of type 2 diabetes and the outcomes are well validated. We did not consider changes
                  in the risk-factor variables during follow-up, and although this would have some advantages,
                  the approach we used minimizes the risk of reverse causation in the interpretation
                  of the results. In addition, we did not distinguish between patients with all or some
                  variables within target range without any specific intervention and patients who had
                  been medically treated to attain the observed risk-factor levels. We also acknowledge
                  that residual confounding and reverse causation are impossible to overcome fully.
                  Finally, given the observational nature of this work, this cannot be a complete comparison
                  of the effects of treating risk factors; rather, because some patients may have had
                  risk-factor variables in the target ranges without treatment, the findings represent
                  the prognostic importance of such risk factors for persons with diabetes.
               </div>
               <div role="paragraph">In conclusion, patients with type 2 diabetes who had five risk-factor variables within
                  target ranges appeared to have little or no excess risks of death, myocardial infarction,
                  and stroke as compared with the general population.
               </div>
            </section>
         </section>
         <section property="sa:articleBackMatter" datatype="rdf:HTML">
            <p class="supported-by-footnote footnote"> Supported by grants from the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions,
               the Swedish State under the agreement concerning research and education of doctors,
               Region Västra Götaland, the Swedish Diabetes Foundation, the Swedish Heart and Lung
               Foundation, the Swedish Research Council (2013-5187 SIMSAM), the Wilhelm and Martina
               Lundgren Science Foundation, and the Swedish Council for Health, Working Life, and
               Welfare.
            </p>
            <p class="financial-disclosure-footnote footnote"> Disclosure forms provided by the authors are available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org.</p>
            <section xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" id="bibliography" role="doc-bibliography" epub:type="bibliography">
               <h3>References</h3>
               <ol>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r1" class="citation">Rawshani A, Rawshani A, Franzén S, et al. Mortality and cardiovascular disease in type 1 and type 2 diabetes. <em>N Engl J Med</em> 2017;376:1407-1418.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28402770">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r1&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000398899200008">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r2" class="citation">Gaede P, Lund-Andersen H, Parving H-H, Pedersen O. Effect of a multifactorial intervention on mortality in type 2 diabetes. <em>N Engl J Med</em> 2008;358:580-591.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18256393">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r2&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000252916400005">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r3" class="citation">Gaede P, Vedel P, Larsen N, Jensen GVH, Parving H-H, Pedersen O. Multifactorial intervention and cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. <em>N Engl J Med</em> 2003;348:383-393.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12556541">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r3&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000180643800003">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r4" class="citation">Eliasson B, Gudbjörnsdottir S. Diabetes care — improvement through measurement. <em>Diabet Res Clin Pract</em> 2014;106:Suppl 2::S291-S294.
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r5" class="citation">Perk J, De Backer G, Gohlke H, et al. European Guidelines on cardiovascular disease prevention in clinical practice (version
                        2012): the Fifth Joint Task Force of the European Society of Cardiology and Other
                        Societies on Cardiovascular Disease Prevention in Clinical Practice (constituted by
                        representatives of nine societies and by invited experts). <em>Eur Heart J</em> 2012;33:1635-1701.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1093%2Feurheartj%2Fehs092">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22555213">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r5&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000306143000024">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r6" class="citation">Inzucchi SE, Bergenstal RM, Buse JB, et al. Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes, 2015: a patient-centered approach:
                        update to a position statement of the American Diabetes Association and the European
                        Association for the Study of Diabetes. <em>Diabetes Care</em> 2015;38:140-149.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.2337%2Fdc14-2441">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25538310">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r7" class="citation">Heller G. A measure of explained risk in the proportional hazards model. <em>Biostatistics</em> 2012;13:315-325.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1093%2Fbiostatistics%2Fkxr047">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22190711">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r8" class="citation">Wan EYF, Fung CSC, Yu EYT, et al. Effect of multifactorial treatment targets and relative importance of hemoglobin A1c,
                        blood pressure, and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol on cardiovascular diseases
                        in Chinese primary care patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a population-based
                        retrospective cohort study. <em>J Am Heart Assoc</em> 2017;6(8):e006400-e006414.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28862945">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r9" class="citation">Gæde P, Oellgaard J, Carstensen B, et al. Years of life gained by multifactorial intervention in patients with type 2 diabetes
                        mellitus and microalbuminuria: 21 years follow-up on the Steno-2 randomised trial. <em>Diabetologia</em> 2016;59:2298-2307.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs00125-016-4065-6">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27531506">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r10" class="citation">Holman RR, Paul SK, Bethel MA, Matthews DR, Neil HAW. 10-Year follow-up of intensive glucose control in type 2 diabetes. <em>N Engl J Med</em> 2008;359:1577-1589.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18784090">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r10&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000259903100006">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r11" class="citation">Stratton IM, Adler AI, Neil HA, et al. Association of glycaemia with macrovascular and microvascular complications of type
                        2 diabetes (UKPDS 35): prospective observational study. <em>BMJ</em> 2000;321:405-412.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1136%2Fbmj.321.7258.405">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10938048">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r11&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000088769500019">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r12" class="citation">Ray KK, Seshasai SR, Wijesuriya S, et al. Effect of intensive control of glucose on cardiovascular outcomes and death in patients
                        with diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. <em>Lancet</em> 2009;373:1765-1772.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0140-6736%2809%2960697-8">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19465231">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r12&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000266337300031">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r13" class="citation">Stratton IM, Cull CA, Adler AI, Matthews DR, Neil HAW, Holman RR. Additive effects of glycaemia and blood pressure exposure on risk of complications
                        in type 2 diabetes: a prospective observational study (UKPDS 75). <em>Diabetologia</em> 2006;49:1761-1769.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fs00125-006-0297-1">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16736131">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r13&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000238859900008">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r14" class="citation">Patel A, MacMahon S, Chalmers J, et al. Effects of a fixed combination of perindopril and indapamide on macrovascular and
                        microvascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (the ADVANCE trial):
                        a randomised controlled trial. <em>Lancet</em> 2007;370:829-840.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0140-6736%2807%2961303-8">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17765963">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r14&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000249733300028">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r15" class="citation">Ismail-Beigi F, Craven T, Banerji MA, et al. Effect of intensive treatment of hyperglycaemia on microvascular outcomes in type
                        2 diabetes: an analysis of the ACCORD randomised trial. <em>Lancet</em> 2010;376:419-430.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0140-6736%2810%2960576-4">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20594588">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r15&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000281012900027">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r16" class="citation">The Look AHEAD Research Group. Association of the magnitude of weight loss and changes in physical fitness with long-term
                        cardiovascular disease outcomes in overweight or obese people with type 2 diabetes:
                        a post-hoc analysis of the Look AHEAD randomised clinical trial. <em>Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol</em> 2016;4:913-921.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS2213-8587%2816%2930162-0">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27595918">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r17" class="citation">Zethelius B, Gudbjörnsdottir S, Eliasson B, Eeg-Olofsson K, Cederholm J. Level of physical activity associated with risk of cardiovascular diseases and mortality
                        in patients with type-2 diabetes: report from the Swedish National Diabetes Register. <em>Eur J Prev Cardiol</em> 2014;21:244-251.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.1177%2F2047487313510893">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24227183">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r18" class="citation">Wing RR, Reboussin D, Lewis CE. Intensive lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes. <em>N Engl J Med</em> 2013;369:2358-2359.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24328474">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r19" class="citation">Stevens RJ, Kothari V, Adler AI, Stratton IM. The UKPDS risk engine: a model for the risk of coronary heart disease in Type II diabetes
                        (UKPDS 56). <em>Clin Sci Lond</em> 2001;101:671-679.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11724655">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r20" class="citation">The SPRINT Research Group. A randomized trial of intensive versus standard blood-pressure control. <em>N Engl J Med</em> 2015;373:2103-2116.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26551272">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r20&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000365354800005">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r21" class="citation">Margolis KL, O’Connor PJ, Morgan TM, et al. Outcomes of combined cardiovascular risk factor management strategies in type 2 diabetes:
                        the ACCORD randomized trial. <em>Diabetes Care</em> 2014;37:1721-1728.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://doi.org/10.2337%2Fdc13-2334">Crossref</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24595629">PubMed</a></li>
                           <li><a href="https://tandfonline.com/servlet/linkout?suffix=r21&amp;dbid=128&amp;doi=10.1056/NEJMoa1800256&amp;key=000337746100050">Web of Science ®</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
                  <li role="doc-biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry">
                     <div id="r22" class="citation">Buckley LF, Dixon DL, Wohlford GF IV, Wijessinghe DS, Baker WL, Van Tassell BW. Intensive versus standard blood pressure control in SPRINT-eligible participants of
                        the ACCORD-BP Trial. <em>Diabetes Care</em> 2017;40:1733-1738.
                        <ul>
                           <li><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28947569">PubMed</a></li>
                        </ul>
                     </div>
                  </li>
               </ol>
            </section>
         </section>
      </article>
   </body>
</html>