<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Bibliography</title><link href="MIT_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></head><body><header>
<h1><span class="chapterTitle"><a id="d2e66"/>Bibliography</span></h1></header>
<section class="biblioDiv"><ol class="biblioEntryList">
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R1"/>Abram, D. 1996. <i>The Spell of the Sensuous</i>. Vintage.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R2"/>Agar, W. 1943. <i>A Contribution to the Theory of the Living Organism</i>. Melbourne University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R3"/>Alexander, S. 1914. The basis of realism. In <i>Realism and the Background of Phenomenology</i>, ed. R. Chisolm (Free Press, 1960).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R4"/>Alexander, S. 1920. <i>Space, Time, and Deity</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R5"/>Allison, H. 1987. <i>Benedict de Spinoza</i>. Yale University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R6"/>Alter, T., and Howell, R. 2015. The short slide from a posteriori physicalism to Russellian monism. In <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, ed. T. Alter and Y. Nagasawa. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R7"/>Alter, T., and Nagasawa, Y. 2012. What is Russellian monism? <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 19 (9&#x2013;10): 67&#x2013;95.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R8"/>Alter, T., and Nagasawa, Y., eds. 2015. <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R9"/>Andrews, J. 1998. Weak panpsychism and environmental ethics. <i>Environmental Values</i> 7: 381&#x2013;396.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R10"/>Aristotle. 1995. <i>The Complete Works of Aristotle</i>, ed. J. Barnes. Princeton University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R11"/>Armstrong, D. 1968. <i>A Materialist Theory of the Mind</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R12"/>Armstrong, E. 1973. <i>Saint Francis: Nature Mystic</i>. University of California Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R13"/>Armstrong-Buck, S. 1986. Whitehead&#x2019;s metaphysical system as a foundation for environmental ethics. <i>Environmental Ethics</i> 8: 241&#x2013;259.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R14"/>Augustine. ca. 410. <i>The City of God</i>. Reprint: Catholic Way, 2015.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R15"/>Bacon, F. ca. 1620. <i>Natural History</i> (<i>Silva silvarum sive historia naturalis</i>).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R16"/>Bahcall, N., Ostriker, J. P., Perlmutter, S., and Steinhardt, P. J. 1999. The cosmic triangle. <i>Science</i> 284 (5419): 1481&#x2013;1489.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R17"/>Bak, P., and Chen, K. 1991. Self-organized critically. <i>Scientific American</i> 264 (1): 46&#x2013;53.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R18"/>Bakewell, C. 1904a. Review of <i>Why the Mind Has a Body.</i> <i>Philosophical Review</i> 13 (2): 220&#x2013;229.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R19"/>Bakewell, C. 1904b. A rejoinder. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 13 (3): 342&#x2013;346.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R20"/>Barnes, J. 1987. <i>Early Greek Philosophy</i>. Penguin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R21"/>Basile, P. 2007. The compounding of consciousness. In <i>Consciousness, Reality, and Value</i>, ed. P. Basile and L. McHenry. Ontos.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R22"/>Basile, P. 2008. Mind-body problem and panpsychism. In <i>Handbook of Whiteheadian Process Philosophy</i>, ed. W. Desmond Jr. and M. Weber. Ontos.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R23"/>Basile, P. 2010a. It must be true, but how can it? Some remarks on panpsychism and mental composition. In <i>The Metaphysics of Consciousness</i>, ed. P. Basile. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R24"/>Basile, P. 2010b. Materialist versus panexperientialist physicalism. <i>Process Studies</i> 39 (2): 264&#x2013;284.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R25"/>Basile, P. 2015. Learning from Leibniz: Whitehead (and Russell) on mind, matter, and monads. <i>British Journal for the History of Philosophy</i> 23 (6): 1128&#x2013;1149.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R26"/>Bateson, G. 1968. Conscious purpose versus nature. In <i>Dialectics of Liberation</i>, ed. D. Cooper. Penguin. In <i>Steps to an Ecology of Mind</i> (Ballantine, 1972).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R27"/>Bateson, G. 1970. Form, substance, and difference. <i>General Semantics Bulletin</i> 37: 5&#x2013;13. Reprinted in Bateson, <i>Steps to an Ecology of Mind</i> (Ballantine, 1972).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R28"/>Bateson, G. 1972. <i>Steps to an Ecology of Mind</i>. Ballantine.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R29"/>Bateson, G. 1979. <i>Mind and Nature</i>. Ballantine.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R30"/>Bawden, H. 1904. The meaning of the psychical from the point of view of the functional psychology. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 13 (3): 298&#x2013;319.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R31"/>Beeson, D. 1992. <i>Maupertuis: An Intellectual Biography</i>. Voltaire Foundation, Taylor Institution.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R32"/>Beever, J., and Cisney, V. 2013. All things in mind: Panpsychist elements in Spinoza, Deleuze, and Peirce. <i>Biosemiotics</i> 6 (3): 351&#x2013;365.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R33"/>Bennett, C. 1922. Review of <i>Volonte et Conscience.</i> <i>Philosophical Review</i> 37: 86&#x2013;90.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R34"/>Bennett, J. 1984. <i>A Study of Spinoza&#x2019;s Ethics</i>. Hackett.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R35"/>Bergson, H. 1896/1911. <i>Matter and Memory</i>. Allen and Unwin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R36"/>Bergson, H. 1907/1911. <i>Creative Evolution</i>. Holt.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R37"/>Bergson, H. 1911/1920. <i>Mind Energy</i>. Holt.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R38"/>Bergson, H. 1922. <i>Duration and Simultaneity</i>. Reprint: Bobbs-Merrill, 1965.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R39"/>Berman, M. 1981. <i>The Reenchantment of the World</i>. Cornell University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R40"/>Birch, C. 1971. Purpose in the universe. <i>Zygon</i> 6 (1): 4&#x2013;27.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R41"/>Birch, C. 1972. Participatory evolution. <i>Journal of the American Academy of Religion</i> 40: 147&#x2013;163.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R42"/>Birch, C. 1974. Chance, necessity, and purpose. In <i>Studies in the Philosophy of Biology</i>, ed. F. Ayala and T. Dobzhansky. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R43"/>Birch, C. 1994. Why I became a panxperientialist. Presented at conference on Consciousness in Humans, Animals, and Machines, Claremont, California.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R44"/>Birch, C. 1995. <i>Feelings</i>. University of New South Wales Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R45"/>Bjelland, A. 1981. Capek, Bergson, and process proto-mentalism. <i>Process Studies</i> 11 (3): 180&#x2013;189.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R46"/>Bjelland, A. 1982. Popper&#x2019;s critique of panpsychism and process protomentalism. <i>Modern Schoolman</i> 59 (4): 233&#x2013;254.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R47"/>Blamauer, M., ed. 2011. <i>The Mental as Fundamental</i>. Ontos.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R48"/>Blamauer, M. 2012. Schelling&#x2019;s &#x201C;real materialism.&#x201D; <i>Minerva</i> 16: 1&#x2013;24.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R49"/>Blamauer, M. 2012b. Does the fundamentality of consciousness entail its ubiquity? <i>Filozofia</i> 67 (3): 243&#x2013;253.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R50"/>Blamauer, M. 2013. The role of subjectivity and the continuity-argument for panpsychism. <i>Polish Journal of Philosophy</i> 7 (1): 7&#x2013;18.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R51"/>Bohm, D. 1957. <i>Causality and Chance in Modern Physics</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R52"/>Bohm, D. 1980. <i>Wholeness and the Implicate Order</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R53"/>Bohm, D. 1982. Nature as creativity. <i>ReVision</i> 5 (2): 35&#x2013;40.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R54"/>Bohm, D. 1986. A new theory of the relationship of mind and matter. <i>Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research</i> 80 (2): 113&#x2013;135.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R55"/>Bohm, D. 1990. A new theory of the relationship of mind and matter. <i>Philosophical Psychology</i> 3 (2): 271&#x2013;286.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R56"/>Bohm, D., and Hiley, B. 1993. <i>Undivided Universe</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R57"/>Bonansea, B. 1969. <i>Tommaso Campanella</i>. Catholic University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R58"/>Bonifazi, C. 1978. <i>The Soul of the World</i>. University Press of America.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R59"/>Bowie, A. 1998. Schelling. In <i>Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>, ed. E. Craig. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R60"/>Bradley, F. 1893. <i>Appearance and Reality</i>. Reprint: Clarendon, 1930.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R61"/>Brettschneider, B. 1964. <i>The Philosophy of Samuel Alexander</i>. Humanities Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R62"/>Brickman, B. 1941. <i>An Introduction to Francesco Patrizi&#x2019;s Nova de Universis Philosophia</i>.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R63"/>Brown, N. 1959. <i>Life Against Death</i>. Wesleyan University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R64"/>Brown, S. 1990. Leibniz and More&#x2019;s cabbalistic circle. In <i>Henry More: Tercentary Studies</i>, ed. S. Hutton. Kluwer.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R65"/>Bruno, G. 1584a. <i>Cause, Principle, and Unity</i> (<i>De la causa, principio, et uno</i>). Reprint: Cambridge University Press, 1998.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R66"/>Bruno, G. 1584b. <i>On the Infinite Universe and Worlds</i> (<i>De l&#x2019;infinito universo et mondi</i>). In D. Singer, Giordano Bruno: His Life and Thought, with Annotated Translation of His Work&#x2014;On the Infinite Universe and Worlds<i> (Schuman, 1950</i>).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R67"/>Burks, A. 1996. Peirce&#x2019;s evolutionary pragmatic idealism. <i>Synthese</i> 106: 323&#x2013;372.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R68"/>Burks, A. 1997. Logic, learning, and creativity in evolution. In <i>Studies in the Logic of Charles Sanders Peirce</i>, ed. N. Houser et al. Indiana University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R69"/>Bush, W. 1925. William James and panpsychism. In <i>Studies in the History of Ideas</i>, volume 2. Columbia University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R70"/>Butler, C. 1978. Panpsychism: A restatement of the genetic argument. <i>Idealistic Studies</i> 8: 33&#x2013;39.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R71"/>Butler, S. 1880. <i>Unconscious Memory</i>. Reprint: Longmans, Green, 1910.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R72"/>Calcagno, A. 1998. <i>Giordano Bruno and the Logic of Coincidence</i>. P. Lang.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R73"/>Callicott, J. B. 1982. Traditional American Indian and Western European attitudes toward nature: An overview. <i>Environmental Ethics</i> 4: 293&#x2013;318.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R74"/>Campanella, T. 1620. On the Sense and Feeling in All Things and on Magic (De sensu rerum et magia). In <i>Tommaso Campanella</i>, ed. B. Bonansea (Catholic University Press, 1969).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R75"/>Campanella, T. 1638. <i>Metaphysics</i> (<i>Metafisica</i>). In <i>Tommaso Campanella</i>, ed. B. Bonansea (Catholic University Press, 1969).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R76"/>Capek, M. 1961. <i>The Philosophical Impact of Contemporary Physics</i>. Van Nostrand.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R77"/>Capek, M. 1971. <i>Bergson and Modern Physics</i>. Reidel.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R78"/>Cardano, G. 1560. <i>The De subtilitate of Girolamo Cardano</i>. Reprint: Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, 2013.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R79"/>Carus, P. 1892. Panpsychism and panbiotism. <i>Monist</i> 3: 234&#x2013;257.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R80"/>Cassirer, E. 1927. <i>The Individual and the Cosmos in Renaissance Philosophy</i>. Reprint: Barnes and Noble, 1963.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R5001"/>Cassirer, E. 1942. Giovanni Pico della Mirandola. <i>Journal of the History of Ideas</i> 3 (2): 123&#x2013;344.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R81"/>Cavendish, M. 1655. Philosophical and Physical Opinions. In <i>Modern Women Philosophers: 1600&#x2013;1900</i>, ed. M. Waithe. Reprint: Kluwer, 1991.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R82"/>Cavendish, M. 1664. Philosophical Letters. In <i>Women Philosophers of the Early Modern Period</i>, ed. M. Atherton (Hackett, 1994).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R83"/>Chaisson, E. 2001. <i>Cosmic Evolution</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R84"/>Chalmers, D. 1995. Facing up to the problem of consciousness. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 2 (3): 200&#x2013;219.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R85"/>Chalmers, D. 1996. <i>The Conscious Mind</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R86"/>Chalmers, D. 2002. Consciousness and its place in nature. In <i>Philosophy of Mind</i>, ed. D. Chalmers. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R87"/>Chalmers, D. 2015. Panpsychism and panprotopsychism. In <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, ed. T. Alter and Y. Nagasawa. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R88"/>Churchland, P. M. 1986. Some reductive strategies in cognitive neurobiology. <i>Mind</i> 95: 279&#x2013;309.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R89"/>Churchland, P. M. 1997. To transform the phenomena. <i>Philosophy of Science</i> 64 supplement, S408&#x2013;S420. In P. M. Churchland and P. S. Churchland, <i>On the Contrary</i> (MIT Press, 1998).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R90"/>Clark, M. 1990. <i>Nietzsche on Truth and Philosophy</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R91"/>Clark, M., and Dudrick, D. 2012. <i>The Soul of Nietzsche&#x2019;s Beyond Good and Evil</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R92"/>Clark, R. 1955. <i>Herder: His Life and Thought</i>. University of California Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R93"/>Clarke, D. 2003. <i>Panpsychism and the Religious Attitude</i>. SUNY Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R94"/>Clarke, D., ed. 2004. <i>Panpsychism: Past and Recent Selected Readings</i>. SUNY Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R95"/>Cleve, F. 1969. <i>The Giants of Pre-Sophistic Greek Philosophy</i>. Martinus Nijhoff.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R96"/>Clifford, W. 1874. Body and mind. In <i>Lectures and Essays</i>, volume 2 (Macmillan, 1903)</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R97"/>Clifford, W. 1878. On the nature of things in themselves. Mind, January. In <i>Lectures and Essays</i> (Macmillan, 1903).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R98"/>Cochran, A. 1971. The relationship between quantum physics and biology. <i>Foundations of Physics</i> 1 (3): 235&#x2013;250.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R99"/>Cobb, J. B., Jr., and Griffin, D. R., eds. 1977. <i>Mind in Nature</i>. University Press of America.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R100"/>Coleman, S. 2012. Mental chemistry: Combination for panpsychists. <i>Dialectica</i> 66 (1): 137&#x2013;166.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R101"/>Coleman, S. 2014. The real combination problem: Panpsychism, micro-subjects, and emergence. <i>Erkenntnis</i> 79 (1): 19&#x2013;44.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R102"/>Conway, J., and Kochen, S. 2006. The free will theorem. <i>Foundations of Physics</i> 36 (10): 1441&#x2013;1473.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R103"/>Conway, J., and Kochen, S. 2009. The strong free will theorem. <i>Notices of the American Mathematical Society</i> 56 (2): 226&#x2013;232.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R104"/>Cooper, W. 1990. William James&#x2019;s theory of mind. <i>Journal of the History of Philosophy</i> 28: 571&#x2013;593.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R105"/>Coxon, A. 1986. <i>The Fragments of Parmenides</i>. Van Gorcum.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R106"/>Craig, E., ed. 1998. <i>Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R107"/>Crombie, I. 1962. <i>An Examination of Plato&#x2019;s Doctrines</i>, volume 1. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R108"/>Curley, E. 1969. <i>Spinoza&#x2019;s Metaphysics</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R109"/>Curley, E. 1988. <i>Behind the Geometrical Method</i>. Princeton University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R110"/>DeGrood, D. 1965. <i>Haeckel&#x2019;s Theory of the Unity of Nature</i>. Christopher.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R111"/>Delahunty, R. 1985. <i>Spinoza</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R112"/>De Quincey, C. 1994. Consciousness all the way down? <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 1 (2): 217&#x2013;229.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R113"/>De Quincey, C. 1999. Past matter, present mind. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 6 (1): 91&#x2013;106.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R114"/>De Quincey, C. 2002. <i>Radical Nature</i>. Invisible Cities.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R115"/>Dewey, J. 1925. <i>Experience and Nature</i>. Open Court.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R116"/>Dewey, J. 1940. Time and individuality. In <i>The Later Works</i>, volume 14, ed. J. Boydston (Southern Illinois University Press, 1988).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R117"/>Diderot, D. 1754. Thoughts on the Interpretation of Nature. In <i>Selected Writings</i>, ed. L. Crocker (Macmillan, 1966).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R118"/>Diderot, D. 1769. D&#x2019;Alembert&#x2019;s Dream. In <i>Diderot: Interpreter of Nature</i> (Lawrence and Wishart, 1937).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R119"/>Diderot, D. 1774&#x2013;1780. <i>Elements of Physiology</i>. In <i>Diderot: Interpreter of Nature</i> (Lawrence and Wishart, 1937).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R120"/>Donagan, A. 1989. <i>Spinoza</i>. University of Chicago Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R121"/>Dooley, B. 1995. <i>Italy in the Baroque</i>. Garland.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R122"/>Drake, D. 1925. <i>Mind and Its Place in Nature</i>. Reprint: Kraus, 1970.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R5002"/>Dulles, A. 1941. <i>Princeps Concordiae</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R123"/>Dyson, F. 1979. <i>Disturbing the Universe</i>. Harper &amp; Row.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R124"/>Eddington, A. 1920. <i>Space, Time, and Gravitation</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R125"/>Eddington, A. 1928. <i>The Nature of the Physical World</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R126"/>Eddington, A. 1939. <i>The Philosophy of Physical Science</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R127"/>Edelman, G. 1992. <i>Bright Air, Brilliant Fire</i>. Basic Books.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R128"/>Edwards, J. 2005. Is consciousness only a property of individual cells? <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 12 (4&#x2013;5): 60&#x2013;76.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R129"/>Edwards, P. 1967. Panpsychism. In <i>Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>, ed. P. Edwards. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R130"/>Edwards, P. 1972. Panpsychism. In <i>Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>, ed. P. Edwards. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R131"/>Ells, P. 2011. <i>Panpsychism: The Philosophy of the Sensuous Cosmos</i>. O-Books.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R132"/>Endres, M., and Pichler, A. 2013. Ways of reading Nietzsche in the light of KGW IX. <i>Journal of Nietzsche Studies</i> 44 (1): 90&#x2013;109.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R133"/>Ernst, G. 2010. Tommaso Campanella: The revolution of knowledge from the prison. In <i>Philosophers of the Renaissance</i>, ed. R. Blum. Catholic University of America Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R134"/>Fechner, G. 1848. Nanna, or on the Soul-Life of Plants. In <i>Religion of a Scientist</i>, ed. R. Lowrie (Pantheon, 1946).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R135"/>Fechner, G. 1861. On the Soul-Question. In <i>Religion of a Scientist</i>, ed. R. Lowrie (Pantheon, 1946).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R136"/>Feigl, H. 1958. The &#x201C;mental&#x201D; and the &#x201C;physical.&#x201D; In <i>Concepts, Theories, and the Mind-Body Problem</i>, ed. H. Feigl et al. University of Minnesota Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R137"/>Feigl, H. 1960. Mind-body, not a pseudo-problem. In <i>Dimensions of Mind</i>, ed. S. Hook. New York University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R138"/>Ferenczi, S. 1926. <i>Further Contributions to the Theory and Technique of Psycho-Analysis</i>. Reprint: Hogarth, 1950.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R139"/>Fierz, M. 1983. <i>Girolamo Cardano</i>. Birkhauser.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R140"/>Ford, L. 1984. <i>The Emergence of Whitehead&#x2019;s Metaphysics</i>. SUNY Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R141"/>Ford, L. 1987. From pre-panpsychism to pansubjectivity. In <i>Faith and Creativity</i>, ed. G. Nordgulen. CBP.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R142"/>Ford, L. 1995. Panpsychism and the early history of prehension. <i>Process Studies</i> 24: 15&#x2013;33.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R143"/>Ford, M. 1981. William James: Panpsychist and metaphysical realist. <i>Trans Peirce Society</i> 17: 158&#x2013;170.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R144"/>Ford, M. 1982. <i>William James&#x2019; Philosophy</i>. University of Massachusetts Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R145"/>Foster, J. 1982. <i>The Case for Idealism</i>. Routledge and Kegan Paul.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R146"/>Francoeur, R. 1961. <i>The World of Teilhard</i>. Helicon.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R147"/>Freeman, K. 1948. <i>Ancilla to the Pre-Socratic Philosophers</i>. Blackwell.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R148"/>Freudenthal, G. 1995. <i>Aristotle&#x2019;s Theory of Material Substance</i>. Clarendon.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R149"/>Friedman, H. 1986. <i>Sun and Earth</i>. Scientific American Library.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R150"/>Frisina, W. 1997. Minds, bodies, experience, nature: Is panpsychism really dead? In <i>Pragmatism, Neo-Pragmatism, and Religion</i>, ed. C. Hardwick. Lang.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R151"/>Fuller, B. 1945. <i>A History of Philosophy</i>. Holt.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R152"/>Gaskin, J., ed. 1994. <i>The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R153"/>Giglioni, G. 1995. Panpsychism versus hylozoism: An interpretation of some seventeenth-century doctrines of universal animation. <i>Acta Comeniana</i> 11: 25&#x2013;44.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R154"/>Giglioni, G. 2002. Francis Glisson&#x2019;s notion of <i>confoederatio naturae</i> in the context of hylozoistic corpuscularism. <i>Revue d&#x2019;Histoire des Sciences</i> 55 (2): 239&#x2013;262.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R155"/>Giglioni, G. 2010. The first of the moderns or the last of the ancients? Bernardino Telesio on nature and sentience. <i>Bruniana e Campanelliana</i> 16 (1): 69&#x2013;87.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R156"/>Gilbert, W. 1600. <i>On the Magnet (De magnete)</i>. Reprint: Dover, 1958.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R157"/>Gill, M., and Lennox, J., eds. 1994. <i>Self-Motion: From Aristotle to Newton</i>. Princeton University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R158"/>Globus, G. 1972. Biological foundations of the psychoneural identify hypothesis. <i>Philosophy of Science</i> 39: 291&#x2013;301.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R159"/>Globus, G. 1973. Unexpected symmetries in the &#x201C;world knot.&#x201D; <i>Science</i> 108 (4091): 1129&#x2013;1136.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R160"/>Globus, G. 1976. Mind, structure, and contradiction. In <i>Consciousness and the Brain</i>, ed. G. Globus et al. Plenum.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R5003"/>Globus, G. 2009. Halting the descent into panpsychism: A quantum thermofield theoretical perspective. In <i>Mind That Abides: Panpsychism in the New Millennium</i>, ed. D. Skrbina. John Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R161"/>Goff, P. 2009. Why panpsychism doesn&#x2019;t help us explain consciousness. <i>Dialectica</i> 63 (3): 289&#x2013;311.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R162"/>Goff, P. 2014. Orthodox property dualism + linguistic theory of vagueness = panpsychism. In <i>Consciousness Inside and Out</i>, ed. R. Brown. Springer.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R163"/>Goff, P. 2015. Against constitutive forms of Russellian monism. In <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, ed. T. Alter and Y. Nagasawa. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R164"/>Goethe, W. 1828. Commentary on the aphoristic essay &#x201C;Nature. In <i>Scientific Studies: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe</i>, ed. D. Miller (Suhrkamp, 1988).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R165"/>Greene, R. 1962. Henry More and Robert Boyle on the spirit of nature. <i>Journal of the History of Ideas</i> 23: 451&#x2013;474.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R166"/>Griffin, D. R. 1977. Whitehead&#x2019;s philosophy and some general notions of physics and biology. In <i>Mind in Nature</i>, ed. J. Cobb and D. Griffin. University Press of America.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R167"/>Griffin, D. R. 1988a. Introduction: The reenchantment of science. In <i>The Reenchantment of Science</i>, ed. D. Griffin. SUNY Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R168"/>Griffin, D. R. 1988b. Of minds and molecules. In <i>The Reenchantment of Science</i>, ed. D. Griffin. SUNY Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R169"/>Griffin, D. R. 1997. Panexperientialist physicalism and the mind-body problem. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 4 (3): 248&#x2013;268.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R170"/>Griffin, D. R. 1998. <i>Unsnarling the World Knot</i>. University of California Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R171"/>Guthrie, W. 1962&#x2013;1981. <i>History of Greek Philosophy</i>, volumes 1&#x2013;6. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R172"/>Guthrie, K. 1988. <i>The Pythagorean Sourcebook and Library</i>. Phanes.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R173"/>Haeckel, E. 1868/1876. <i>The History of Creation</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R174"/>Haeckel, E. 1892. Our monism. <i>Monist</i> 2 (4): 481&#x2013;486.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R175"/>Haeckel, E. 1895. <i>Monism as Connecting Religion and Science</i>. A. and C. Black.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R176"/>Haeckel, E. 1899. <i>The Riddle of the Universe</i>. Reprint: Watts, 1929.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R177"/>Haeckel, E. 1904. <i>The Wonders of Life</i>. Watts.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R178"/>Haldane, J. B. S. 1932. <i>The Inequality of Man</i>. Chatto &amp; Windus.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R179"/>Haldane, J. B. S. 1934. Quantum mechanics as a basis for philosophy. <i>Philosophy of Science</i> 1: 78&#x2013;98.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R180"/>Halton, E. 2005. Peircean animism and the end of civilization. <i>Contemporary Pragmatism</i> 2 (1): 136&#x2013;166.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R181"/>Hameroff, S. 1994. Quantum coherence in microtubules. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 1: 91&#x2013;118.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R182"/>Hameroff, S. 1998a. Funda-mentality: Is the conscious mind subtly linked to a basic level of the universe? <i>Trends in Cognitive Sciences</i> 2 (4): 119&#x2013;127.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R183"/>Hameroff, S. 1998b. More neural than thou. In <i>Toward a Science of Consciousness II</i>, ed. S. Hameroff et al. MIT Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R184"/>Hameroff, S. 2009. The conscious connection: A psycho-physical bridge between brain and pan-experiential quantum geometry. In <i>Mind That Abides: Panpsychism in the New Millennium</i>, ed. D. Skrbina. John Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R185"/>Hameroff, S., and Penrose, R. 1996. Conscious events as orchestrated space-time selections. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 3 (1): 36&#x2013;53.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R186"/>Hamilton, A. 1990. Ernst Mach and the elimination of subjectivity. <i>Ratio</i> 3 (2): 117&#x2013;133.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R187"/>Hamlyn, D. 1980. <i>Schopenhauer: The Arguments of the Philosophers</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R188"/>Hampshire, S. 1951. <i>Spinoza</i>. Penguin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R189"/>Hampshire, S. 2002. The Spinoza solution. <i>New York Review of Books</i>, October 24: 55&#x2013;56.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R190"/>Harman, G. 2002. <i>Tool-Being: Heidegger and the Metaphysics of Objects</i>. Open Court.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R191"/>Harris, E. 1973. Body-mind relation in Spinoza&#x2019;s philosophy. In <i>Spinoza&#x2019;s Metaphysics</i>, ed. J. Wilbur. Van Gorcum.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R192"/>von Hartmann, E. 1869. <i>Philosophy of the Unconscious</i>. Reprint: Routledge, 1950.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R193"/>Hartshorne, C. 1936. The compound individual. In <i>Whitehead&#x2019;s Philosophy: Selected Essays</i> (University of Nebraska Press, 1972)</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R194"/>Hartshorne, C. 1937. <i>Beyond Humanism</i>. Willett, Clark.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R195"/>Hartshorne, C. 1949. Chance, love, incompatibility. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 58 (5): 429&#x2013;450.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R196"/>Hartshorne, C. 1950. Panpsychism. In <i>A History of Philosophical Systems</i>, ed. V. Ferm. Philosophical Library.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R197"/>Hartshorne, C. 1977. Physics and psychics. In <i>Mind in Nature</i>, ed. J. Cobb Jr. and D. Griffin. University Press of America.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R198"/>Hartshorne, C. 1979. The rights of the subhuman world. <i>Environmental Ethics</i> 1: 49&#x2013;60.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R199"/>Hartshorne, C. 1990. <i>The Darkness and the Light</i>. SUNY Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R200"/>Harvey, G. 2005. <i>Animism: Respecting the Living World</i>. Columbia University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R201"/>Harvey, G. 2015. <i>The Handbook of Contemporary Animism</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R202"/>Heidegger, M. 1927. <i>Being and Time</i>. Reprint: SUNY Press, 1996.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R203"/>Heidelberger, M. 2004. <i>Nature from Within: Gustav Theodor Fechner and his Psychophysical Worldview</i>. University of Pittsburgh Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R204"/>Henry, J. 1987. Medicine and pneumatology: Henry More, Richard Baxter, and Francis Glisson&#x2019;s <i>Treatise on the Energetic Nature of Substance.</i> <i>Medical History</i> 31: 15&#x2013;40.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R205"/>Henry, J. 2001. Animism and empiricism: Copernican physics and the origins of William Gilbert&#x2019;s experimental method. <i>Journal of the History of Ideas</i> 62 (1): 99&#x2013;119.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R206"/>Henry, J. 2011. Omnipotence and thinking matter. In <i>Materia: XIII Colloquio Internazionale</i>, ed. D. Giovanozzi and M. Veneziana. Leo S. Olschiki Editore.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R207"/>Herbert, G. 1989. <i>Thomas Hobbes: The Unity of Scientific and Moral Wisdom</i>. University of British Columbia Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R208"/>Herder, J. 1778. On the Cognition and Sensation of the Human Soul. In <i>Philosophical Writings: Johann Gottfried von Herder</i>, ed. M. Forster (Cambridge University Press, 2002).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R209"/>Hill, K. 2007. <i>Nietzsche: A Guide for the Perplexed</i>. Continuum.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R210"/>Hobbes, T. 1655. <i>On the Body (De corpore)</i>. In <i>The English Works of Thomas Hobbes</i>, ed. W. Molesworth (Bohn, 1839).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R211"/>Hoeffding, H. 1908. <i>A History of Modern Philosophy</i>, volume 1. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R212"/>Holman, E. 2008. Panpsychism, physicalism, neutral monism, and the Russellian theory of mind. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 15 (5): 48&#x2013;67.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R213"/>Houser, N. 2014. The intelligible universe. <i>Biosemiotics</i> 11: 9&#x2013;32.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R214"/>Howe, R., et al. 2000. Dynamic variations at the base of the solar convection zone. <i>Science</i> 287 (5462): 2456&#x2013;2460.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R215"/>Humphrey, N. 1992. <i>A History of the Mind</i>. Chatto &amp; Windus.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R216"/>Hut, P., and Shepard, R. 1996. Turning the &#x201C;hard problem&#x201D; upside down and sideways. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 3 (4): 313&#x2013;329.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R217"/>Hutto, D. 2000. <i>Beyond Physicalism</i>. Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R218"/>Huxley, J. 1942. The biologist looks at man. <i>Fortune</i>, December.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R219"/>Ingegno, A. 1998. Introduction. In <i>Cause, Principle, and Unity</i>, ed. G. Bruno. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R220"/>Inwood, B., and Gerson, L. 1997. <i>Hellenistic Philosophy</i>. Hackett.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R221"/>James, W. 1890. <i>Principles of Psychology</i>. Reprint: Dover, 1950.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R222"/>James, W. 1902. <i>Varieties of Religious Experience</i>. Collier.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R223"/>James, W. 1909. <i>A Pluralistic Universe</i>. Reprint: University of Nebraska Press, 1996.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R224"/>James, W. 1911a. <i>Some Problems of Philosophy</i>. Reprint: Greenwood, 1968.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R225"/>James, W. 1911b. <i>Memories and Studies</i>. Longmans, Green.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R226"/>James, W. 1912. <i>Essays in Radical Empiricism</i>. Reprint: University of Nebraska Press, 1996.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R227"/>James, W. 1920. <i>Letters of William James</i>. Atlantic Monthly Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R228"/>Jammer, M. 1957. <i>Concepts of Force</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R229"/>Janaway, C. 2007. <i>Beyond Selflessness</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R230"/>Jeans, J. 1932. <i>The Mysterious Universe</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R231"/>Jeans, J. 1942. <i>Physics and Philosophy</i>. University of Michigan Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R232"/>Joachim, H. 1901. <i>A Study of the Ethics of Spinoza</i>. Reprint: Russell &amp; Russell, 1964.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R233"/>Jung, C. G., and Pauli, W. 1955. <i>The Interpretation of Nature and the Psyche</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R234"/>Kant, I. 1766. <i>Dreams of a Spirit-Seer</i>. Reprint: Macmillan, 1900.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R235"/>Kant, I. 1781. <i>Critique of Pure Reason</i>. Reprint: St. Martin&#x2019;s Press, 1965.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R236"/>Kant, I. 1790. <i>Critique of Judgment</i>. Reprint: Hafner, 1951.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R237"/>Kauffman, S. 2016a. <i>Humanity in a Creative Universe</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R238"/>Kauffman, S. 2016b. Cosmic mind? <i>Theology and Science</i> 14 (1): 36&#x2013;47.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R239"/>Kaufmann, W. 1950. <i>Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist</i>. Princeton University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R240"/>Kaufmann, W. 1967/1972. Nietzsche. In <i>The Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>, ed. P. Edwards. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R241"/>Kepler, J. 1618. <i>Harmonies of the World</i>. Reprint: Prometheus Books, 1995.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R242"/>Kerr-Lawson, A. 1984. Spirit&#x2019;s primary nature is to be secondary. <i>Bulletin of the Santayana Society</i> 2: 9&#x2013;14.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R243"/>Kind, A. 2015. Pessimism about Russellian monism. In <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, ed. T. Alter and Y. Nagasawa. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R244"/>Kirk, G., et al. 1983. <i>The Presocratic Philosophers</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R245"/>Klausner, N. 1967. Charles A. Strong, realist and panpsychist. <i>Monist</i> 51: 267&#x2013;283.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R246"/>Klemm, D., and Klink, W. 2008. Consciousness and quantum mechanics. <i>Zygon</i> 43 (2): 307&#x2013;327.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R247"/>Koch, C. 2012. <i>Consciousness: Confessions of a Romantic Reductionist</i>. MIT Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R248"/>Koch, C. 2013. Ubiquitous minds. <i>Scientific American Mind</i> 25: 26&#x2013;29.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R249"/>Koestler, A. 1967. <i>The Ghost in the Machine</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R250"/>Koestler, A. 1978. <i>Janus</i>. Random House.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R251"/>Kristeller, P. 1964. <i>Eight Philosophers of the Italian Renaissance</i>. Stanford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R252"/>Kuelpe, O. 1913. <i>Philosophy of the Present in Germany</i>. Allen.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R253"/>Kuklick, B. 1977. <i>The Rise of American Philosophy</i>. Yale University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R254"/>LaMettrie, J. 1745. Natural History of the Soul. In <i>Machine Man and Other Writings</i>, ed. A. Thomson. Reprint: Cambridge University Press, 1996.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R255"/>LaMettrie, J. 1747. <i>Man, a Machine</i>. (<i>L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i>). In <i>Man a Machine: And, Man a Plant</i>, ed. R. Watson and M. Rybalka (Hackett, 1994).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R256"/>LaMettrie, J. 1748. <i>Man, a Plant</i>. (<i>L&#x2019;Homme Plante</i>). In <i>Man a Machine: And, Man a Plant</i>, ed. R. Watson and M. Rybalka (Hackett, 1994).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R257"/>Lang, K. 1995. <i>Sun, Earth, and Sky</i>. Springer.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R258"/>Leibniz, G. 1686a. Primary Truths. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R259"/>Leibniz, G. 1686b. Letter to Arnauld. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R260"/>Leibniz, G. 1687. Letter to Arnauld. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R261"/>Leibniz, G. 1690. Notes on some comments by Michel Angelo Fardela. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R262"/>Leibniz, G. 1695. A New System of Nature. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R263"/>Leibniz, G. 1698. On Nature Itself. In <i>Philosophical Papers and Letters</i>, ed. L. Loemker (University of Chicago Press, 1956).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R264"/>Leibniz, G. 1707. Comments on Spinoza&#x2019;s philosophy. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R265"/>Leibniz, G. 1714a. Principles of Nature and of Grace. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R266"/>Leibniz, G. 1714b. The monadology. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R267"/>Leibniz, G. 1716. Letter to Des Bosses. In <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber (Hackett, 1989).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R268"/>Leibniz, G. 1989. <i>Philosophical Essays</i>, ed. R. Ariew and D. Garber. Hackett.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R269"/>Leinkauf, T. 2010. Francesco Patrizi: New philosophies of history, poetry, and the world. In <i>Philosophers of the Renaissance</i>, ed. R. Blum. Catholic University of America Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R270"/>Leiter, B. 2013. Nietzsche&#x2019;s naturalism reconsidered. In <i>The Oxford Handbook of Nietzsche</i>, ed. K. Gemes and J. Richardson. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R271"/>Leopold, A. 1979. Some fundamentals of conservation in the southwest. <i>Environmental Ethics</i> 1 (2): 131&#x2013;141.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R272"/>Lewis, D. 1966. An argument for the identity theory. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i> 63: 17&#x2013;25.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R273"/>Lewtas, P. 2015. Russellian panpsychism: Too good to be true? <i>American Philosophical Quarterly</i> 52 (1): 57&#x2013;71.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R274"/>Lloyd, A. C. 1959. Parmenides. In <i>Encyclop&#x00E6;dia Britannica</i>. Encyclop&#x00E6;dia Britannica, Inc.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R275"/>Locke, J. 1689. <i>An Essay Concerning Human Understanding</i>. Reprint: Dutton, 1964.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R276"/>Lockwood, M. 1989. <i>Mind, Brain, and the Quantum</i>. Blackwell.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R277"/>Loeb, P. 2015. Will to power and panpsychism. In <i>Nietzsche on Mind and Nature</i>, ed. M. Dries and P. Kail. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R278"/>Long, A. A. 1974. <i>Hellenistic Philosophy</i>. Duckworth.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R279"/>Long, A. A. 1996. Parmenides on thinking being. <i>Boston Proceedings on Ancient Philosophy</i> 12: 125&#x2013;151.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R280"/>Lossky, N. 1901. Kozlov i Yevo panpsikhism. <i>Voprosy filosofi i psikhologii</i> 58: 198&#x2013;202.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R281"/>Lossky, N. 1906. The Intuitive Basis of Knowledge. In <i>A History of Russian Philosophy</i>, ed. V. Kuvakin (Prometheus Books, 1994).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R282"/>Lossky, N. 1917/1928. <i>The World as an Organic Whole</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R283"/>Lossky, N. 1951. <i>History of Russian Philosophy</i>. International Universities Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R284"/>Lotze, R. H. 1971. <i>Microcosmos</i>. T. &amp; T. Clark.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R285"/>Lucretius. 1977. <i>The Nature of Things (De rerum natura)</i>. Norton.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R286"/>Lycan, W. 2011. Recent naturalistic dualisms. In <i>Light Against Darkness</i>, ed. A. Lange et al. Vandenhoeck &amp; Ruprecht.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R287"/>Mach, E. 1883. <i>The Science of Mechanics</i>. Reprint: Open Court, 1942.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R288"/>Madden, E., and Hare, P. 1971. The powers that be. <i>Dialogue</i> 10, 12&#x2013;30.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R289"/>Madell, G. 1988. <i>Mind and Materialism</i>. Edinburgh University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R290"/>Magee, B. 1983. <i>The Philosophy of Schopenhauer</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R291"/>Manjaly, J. 2009. Panpsychic presuppositions of Samkhya metaphysics. In <i>Mind That Abides: Panpsychism in the New Millennium</i>, ed. D. Skrbina. John Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R292"/>Martin, C., and Pfeifer, K. 1986. Intentionality and the non-psychological. <i>Philosophy and Phenomenological Research</i> 46: 531&#x2013;556.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R293"/>Marx, W. 1984. <i>The Philosophy of F. W. J. Schelling</i>. Indiana University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R294"/>Mathews, F. 1998. The real, the one and the many in ecological thought. In <i>Spirit of the Environment</i>, ed. J. Palmer and D. Cooper. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R295"/>Mathews, F. 2003. <i>For Love of Matter</i>. SUNY Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R296"/>Maxwell, G. 1978. Rigid designators and mind-brain identity. <i>Minnesota Studies in the Philosophy of Science</i> 9: 365&#x2013;403.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R297"/>McCarthy, J. 1979. Ascribing mental qualities to machines. In <i>Philosophical Perspectives in Artificial Intelligence</i>, ed. M. Ringle. Humanities Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R298"/>McDaniel, J. 1983. Physical matter as creative and sentient. <i>Environmental Ethics</i> 5: 291&#x2013;317.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R299"/>McDougall, W. 1920. <i>Body and Mind: A History and a Defense of Animism</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R300"/>McGinn, C. 1991. <i>The Problem of Consciousness</i>. Blackwell.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R301"/>McGinn, C. 1997. <i>Character of Mind</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R302"/>McGinn, C. 1999. <i>The Mysterious Flame</i>. Basic Books.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R303"/>McGinn, C. 2006. Hard questions. In <i>Consciousness and its Place in Nature</i>, ed. A. Freeman. Imprint Academic.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R304"/>McGuire, J. 1968. Force, active principles, and Newton&#x2019;s invisible realm. <i>Ambix</i> 15 (3): 154&#x2013;208.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R305"/>McGuire, J. 1994. Natural motion and its causes: Newton on the &#x2018;Vis Insita&#x2019; of bodies. In <i>Self-Motion</i>, ed. M. Gill and J. Lennox. Princeton University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R306"/>McHenry, L. 1995. Whitehead&#x2019;s panpsychism as the subjectivity of prehension. <i>Process Studies</i> 24: 1&#x2013;14.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R307"/>McHenry, L. 2010. Sprigge&#x2019;s ontology of consciousness. In <i>The Metaphysics of Consciousness</i>, ed. P. Basile, J. Kiverstein, and P. Phemister. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R308"/>McRae, R. 1981. Life, vis inertiae, and the mechanical philosophy. In <i>Pragmatism and Purpose</i>, ed. L. Sumner et al. University of Toronto Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R309"/>Merchant, C. 1979. <i>The Death of Nature</i>. Harper &amp; Row.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R310"/>Merleau-Ponty, M. 1945. <i>Phenomenology of Perception</i>. Reprint: Routledge, 1962</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R311"/>Monod, J. 1971. <i>Chance and Necessity</i>. Random House.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R312"/>Montague, W. 1905. Panpsychism and monism. <i>Journal of Philosophy</i> 2 (23): 626&#x2013;629.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R313"/>Montague, W. 1912. A realistic theory of truth and error. In <i>New Realism</i>, ed. H. Holt. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R314"/>Montague, W. 1945. Human soul and cosmic mind. <i>Mind</i> 54 (213): 50&#x2013;65.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R5004"/>Moore, G. 2002. <i>Nietzsche, Biology, and Metaphor</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R315"/>Naess, A. 1975. <i>Freedom, Emotion, and Self-Subsistence</i>. Universitetsforl.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R316"/>Nagel, T. 1974. What is it like to be a bat? <i>Philosophical Review</i> 83 (4): 435&#x2013;450.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R317"/>Nagel, T. 1979. <i>Mortal Questions</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R318"/>Nagel, T. 1986. <i>The View from Nowhere</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R319"/>Nagel, T. 2002. <i>Concealment and Exposure</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R320"/>Nagel, T. 2012. <i>Mind and Cosmos</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R321"/>Nash, R. 1975. The significance of the arrangement of the deck chairs on the <i>Titanic</i> (the extension of ethics and humanity). <i>Not Man Apart</i> 5, October: 7&#x2013;9. Reprinted in <i>Earthworks</i>, ed. M. Van Deventer (Friends of the Earth, 1980).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R322"/>Nash, R. 1977. Do rocks have rights? <i>The Center Magazine</i> 10 (November/December): 2&#x2013;12.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R323"/>Naydler, J. 1996. <i>Goethe on Science</i>. Floris Books.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R324"/>Nehamas, A. 1985. <i>Nietzsche: Life as Literature</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R325"/>Newton, I. 1687. <i>Principia (The Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy)</i>. Reprint: University of California Press, 1934.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R326"/>Nietzsche, F. 1883. <i>Thus Spoke Zarathustra</i>. In <i>The Portable Nietzsche</i>, ed. W. Kaufmann (Penguin, 1954).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R327"/>Nietzsche, F. 1886. <i>Beyond Good and Evil</i>. Reprint: Penguin, 1973.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R328"/>Nietzsche, F. 1887. <i>On the Genealogy of Morals</i>. Reprint: Oxford University Press, 1996.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R329"/>Nietzsche, F. 1906. <i>The Will to Power</i>. Reprint: Random House, 1967.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R330"/>Nietzsche, F. 1954. <i>Werke</i>, ed. K. Schlechta. Carl Hanser Verlag.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R331"/>Nietzsche, F. 1979. <i>Philosophy and Truth</i>, ed. D. Breazeale. Humanities Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R332"/>Nietzsche, F. 2003. <i>Writings from the Late Notebooks</i>, ed. R. Bittner. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R333"/>Nisbet, H. 1970. <i>Herder and the Philosophy and History of Science</i>. Modern Humanities Research Association.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R334"/>O&#x2019;Brien, J. 1958. Gravity and love as unifying principles. <i>Thomist</i> 21: 184&#x2013;193.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R335"/>O&#x2019;Brien, J. 1988. Teilhard&#x2019;s view of nature and some implications for environmental ethics. <i>Environmental Ethics</i> 10: 329&#x2013;346.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R336"/>Orr, E. 2012. <i>Wakeful World: Animism, Mind, and the Self in Nature</i>. Moon Books.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R337"/>Ouspensky, P. 1912. <i>Tertium Organum</i>. Reprint: Routledge, 1981.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R338"/>Pagel, W. 1982. <i>Paracelsus</i>. Karger.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R339"/>Paracelsus, P. 1894. Concerning the nature of things. In <i>The Hermetic and Alchemical Writings of Aureolus Philippus Theophrastus Bombast</i>. J. Elliot.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R340"/>Parkes, G. 1994. <i>Composing the Soul</i>. University of Chicago Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R341"/>Parkes, G. 2009. The awareness of rocks: East-Asian understandings and implications. In <i>Mind That Abides: Panpsychism in the New Millennium</i>, ed. D. Skrbina. John Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R342"/>Parkinson, G. 1953. <i>Spinoza&#x2019;s Theory of Knowledge</i>. Clarendon.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R343"/>Partridge, E. 1984. Nature as a moral resource. <i>Environmental Ethics</i> 6 (2): 101&#x2013;130.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R344"/>Paulsen, F. 1892/1895. <i>Introduction to Philosophy</i>. Holt.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R345"/>Peck, A. 1943. Bibliographic footnotes. In <i>Aristotle, Generation of Animals</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R346"/>Peirce, C. S. 1891. The architecture of theories. <i>Monist</i> 1, no. 1: 161&#x2013;176. In <i>The Essential Peirce</i>, volume 1, ed. N. House and C. Kloesel (Indiana University Press, 1992).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R347"/>Peirce, C. S. 1892a. The doctrine of necessity examined. <i>Monist</i> 2, no. 1: 321&#x2013;337. In <i>The Essential Peirce</i>, volume 1, ed. N. House and C. Kloesel (Indiana University Press, 1992).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R348"/>Peirce, C. S. 1892b. The law of mind. <i>Monist</i> 2, no. 2: 533&#x2013;559. In <i>The Essential Peirce</i>, volume 1, ed. N. House and C. Kloesel (Indiana University Press, 1992).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R349"/>Peirce, C. S. 1892c. Man&#x2019;s glassy essence. <i>Monist</i> 3, no. 1: 1&#x2013;22. In <i>The Essential Peirce</i>, volume 1, ed. N. House and C. Kloesel (Indiana University Press, 1992).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R350"/>Peirce, C. S. 1934. <i>Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R351"/>Peirce, C. S. 1992a. <i>The Essential Peirce</i>, volume 1, ed. N. House and C. Kloesel. Indiana University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R352"/>Peirce, C. S. 1992b. <i>The Essential Peirce</i>, volume 2, ed. N. House and C. Kloesel. Indiana University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R353"/>Peirce, C. S. 1993. <i>Reasoning and the Logic of Things</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R354"/>Penrose, R. 1989. <i>Emperor&#x2019;s New Mind</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R355"/>Penrose, R. 1994a. Mechanisms, microtubules, and the mind. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 1 (2): 241&#x2013;249.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R356"/>Penrose, R. 1994b. <i>Shadows of the Mind</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R357"/>Perry, H. 1968. <i>The First Duchess of Newcastle</i>. Johnson Reprint.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R358"/>Perry, R. 1935. <i>Thought and Character of William James</i>. Little, Brown.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R359"/>Plato. 1997. <i>Complete Works</i>, ed. J. Cooper. Hackett.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R360"/>Plato. 1953. <i>Sophist</i>. Clarendon.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R361"/>Plumwood, V. 1993. <i>Feminism and the Mastery of Nature</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R362"/>Plumwood, V. 1998. Intentional recognition and reductive rationality. <i>Environmental Values</i> 7: 397&#x2013;421.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R363"/>Plumwood, V. 2002. <i>Environmental Culture</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R364"/>Poellner, P. 1995. <i>Nietzsche and Metaphysics</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R365"/>Popper, K., and Eccles, J. 1977. <i>The Self and Its Brain</i>. Springer.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R366"/>Porter, J. 2006. Nietzsche&#x2019;s theory of the will to power. In <i>A Companion to Nietzsche</i>, ed. K. Pearson. Blackwell.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R367"/>Priestley, J. 1777. Disquisitions relating to matter and spirit. In <i>The Theological and Miscellaneous Works of Joseph Priestly</i>, ed. J. Rutt. Reprint: Kraus, 1972.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R368"/>Prince, M. 1885. The Nature of Mind and the Human Automatism. In <i>The Origins of Psychology</i>, volume 1 (Alan R. Liss, 1975).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R369"/>Prince, M. 1904. The identification of mind and matter. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 13 (4): 444&#x2013;451.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R370"/>Reeve, C., and Miller, P., eds. 2006. <i>Introductory Readings in Ancient Greek and Roman Philosophy</i>. Hackett.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R371"/>Reginster, B. 2012. Replies to my critics. <i>Journal of Nietzsche Studies</i> 43 (1): 130&#x2013;140.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R372"/>Rensch, B. 1960. <i>Evolution above the Species Level</i>. Columbia University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R373"/>Rensch, B. 1971. <i>Biophilosophy</i>. Columbia University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R374"/>Rensch, B. 1972. Spinoza&#x2019;s identify theory and modern biophilosophy. <i>Philosophical Forum</i> 3: 193&#x2013;207.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R375"/>Rensch, B. 1977. Arguments for panpsychistic identism. In <i>Mind in Nature</i>, ed. J. Cobb and D. Griffin. University Press of America.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R376"/>Richardson, J. 2000. Clark on will to power. <i>International Studies in Philosophy</i> 32 (3): 107&#x2013;117.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R377"/>Rist, J. 1989. <i>The Mind of Aristotle. Phoenix series</i>, volume 25. University of Toronto Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R378"/>Robinson, E. 1949. Animism as a world hypothesis. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 58: 53&#x2013;63.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R379"/>Rockwell, T. 2013. Mind or mechanism: Which came first? In <i>Origins of Mind</i>, ed. L. Swan. Springer.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R380"/>Rorty, R. 1995. Dewey between Hegel and Darwin. In <i>Rorty and Pragmatism</i>, ed. H. Saatkamp. Vanderbilt University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R381"/>Rosenberg, G. 1996. Rethinking nature. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 3 (1): 76&#x2013;88.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R382"/>Rosenberg, G. 2004. <i>A Place for Consciousness</i>. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R383"/>Rosenberg, G. 2015. Causality and the combination problem. In <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, ed. T. Alter and Y. Nagasawa. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R384"/>Royce, J. 1892. <i>Spirit of Modern Philosophy</i>. Reprint: Houghton Miffin, 1955.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R385"/>Royce, J. 1898. <i>Studies of Good and Evil</i>. Reprint: Appleton, 1915.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R386"/>Royce, J. 1899&#x2013;1901. <i>The World and the Individual</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R387"/>Russell, B. 1915. Ultimate constituents of matter. In <i>Realism and the Background of Phenomenology</i>, ed. R. Chisolm. Reprint: Free Press, 1960.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R388"/>Russell, B. 1921. <i>The Analysis of Mind</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R389"/>Russell, B. 1927a. <i>The Analysis of Matter</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R390"/>Russell, B. 1927b. <i>An Outline of Philosophy</i>. Allen and Unwin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R391"/>Russell, B. 1940/1949. <i>An Inquiry into Meaning and Truth</i>. Norton.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R392"/>Russell, B. 1956. <i>Portraits from Memory</i>. Allen and Unwin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R393"/>Salter, W. 1922. Panpsychism and freedom. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 31 (3): 285&#x2013;287.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R394"/>Sambursky, S. 1959. <i>The Physics of the Stoics</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R395"/>Sandbach, F. 1975. <i>The Stoics</i>. Chatto &amp; Windus.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R396"/>Schelling, F. 1797. <i>Ideas for a Philosophy of Nature</i>. Reprint: Cambridge University Press, 1988.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R397"/>Schelling, F. 1800. <i>System of Transcendental Idealism</i>. Reprint: University Press of Virginia, 1978.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R398"/>Schiller, F. 1891. <i>Riddles of the Sphinx</i>. S. Sonnenschein.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R399"/>Schiller, F. 1907. <i>Studies in Humanism</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R400"/>Schiller, F. 1929. <i>Logic for Use</i>. G. Bell.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R401"/>Schilpp, P., ed. 1941. <i>The Philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead</i>. Northwestern University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R402"/>Schleicher, D. 2013. Interview with John Horton Conway. <i>Notices of the American Mathematical Society</i> 60 (5): 567&#x2013;575.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R403"/>Schnadelbach, H. 1984. <i>Philosophy in Germany: 1831&#x2013;1933</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R404"/>Schopenhauer, A. 1819. <i>The World as Will and Idea</i>. Reprint: J. M. Dent, 1995.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R405"/>Schopenhauer, A. 1819. <i>The World as Will and Representation</i>, volume 1. Reprint: Dover, 1969</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R406"/>Schopenhauer, A. 1836. <i>On the Will in Nature</i>, ed. D. Cartwright (Berg, 1993).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R407"/>Schopenhauer, A. 1851. <i><i>Parerga and Paralipomena</i>,</i> ed. D. Cartwright (Clarendon, 1974).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R408"/>Schweitzer, A. 1949. <i>The Philosophy of Civilization</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R409"/>Seager, W. 1991. <i>Metaphysics of Consciousness</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R410"/>Seager, W. 1995. Consciousness, information, and panpsychism. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 2 (3): 272&#x2013;288.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R411"/>Seager, W. 1999. <i>Theories of Consciousness</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R412"/>Seager, W. 2001. Panpsychism. <i>Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i> (online), summer 2001 edition.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R413"/>Seager, W. 2009. Panpsychism. In <i>The Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Mind</i>, ed. A. Beckermann et al. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R414"/>Seager, W. 2010. Panpsychism, aggregation, and combinatorial infusion. <i>Mind and Matter</i> 8 (2): 167&#x2013;184.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R415"/>Searle, J. 1997. Consciousness and the philosophers. <i>New York Review of Books</i> 44 (4): 43&#x2013;50.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R416"/>Searle, J. 2013. Can information theory explain consciousness? <i>New York Review of Books</i> 60 (1).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R417"/>Sellars, R. 1960. Panpsychism or evolutionary materialism. <i>Philosophy of Science</i> 27: 329&#x2013;350.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R418"/>Shani, I. 2010. Mind stuffed with red herrings: Why William James&#x2019; critique of the mind-stuff theory does not substantiate a combination problem for panpsychism. <i>Acta Analytica</i> 25 (4): 413&#x2013;434.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R419"/>Sharpe, R. 1989. Dennett&#x2019;s journey towards panpsychism. <i>Inquiry</i> 32 (2): 233&#x2013;240.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R420"/>Sheldrake, R. 1990. <i>The Rebirth of Nature</i>. Century.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R421"/>Sherrington, C. 1941. <i>Man on His Nature</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R422"/>Sherrington, C. 1949. <i>Goethe on Nature and on Science</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R423"/>Singer, D. 1950. <i>Giordano Bruno</i>. Schuman.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R424"/>Skolimowski, H. 1990. The world as sanctuary. [summer]. <i>Quest</i>.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R425"/>Skolimowski, H. 1992. <i>Living Philosophy: Eco-Philosophy as a Tree of Life</i>. Arkana/Penguin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R426"/>Skolimowski, H. 1993. <i>A Sacred Place to Dwell</i>. Element Books.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R427"/>Skolimowski, H. 1994. <i>The Participatory Mind</i>. Arkana/Penguin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R428"/>Skrbina, D. 1994. Participatory chaos: An analytic model of consciousness. In <i>Coherence and Chaos in our Uncommon Futures</i>, ed. M. Mannermaa et al. Finland Future Research Centre.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R429"/>Skrbina, D. 2003. Panpsychism as an underlying theme in western philosophy. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 10 (3): 4&#x2013;46.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R430"/>Skrbina, D. 2006. Beyond Descartes: Panpsychism revisited. <i>Axiomathes</i> 16: 387&#x2013;423.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R431"/>Skrbina, D. 2008. On the problem of the aggregate. In Chromatikon<i> IV</i>. Presses Universitaires de Louvain.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R432"/>Skrbina, D. 2009a. Panpsychism in history: An overview. In <i>Mind That Abides: Panpsychism in the New Millennium</i>, ed. D. Skrbina. John Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R433"/>Skrbina, D. 2009b. Minds, objects, and relations: Toward a dual-aspect ontology. In <i>Mind That Abides: Panpsychism in the New Millennium</i>, ed. D. Skrbina. John Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R434"/>Skrbina, D. 2009c. Transcending consciousness: Thoughts on a universal conception of mind. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 16 (5): 79&#x2013;87.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R435"/>Skrbina, D. 2010. Whitehead and the ubiquity of mind. In Chromatikon<i> VI</i>. Presses Universitaires de Louvain.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R436"/>Skrbina, D. 2011. Mind space: Toward a solution to the combination problem. In <i>The Mental as Fundamental</i>, ed. M. Blamauer. Ontos Verlag.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R437"/>Skrbina, D. 2013. Ethics, eco-philosophy, and universal sympathy. <i>Dialogue and Universalism</i> 23 (4): 59&#x2013;74.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R438"/>Skrbina, D. 2014. Dualism, dual-aspectism, and the mind. In <i>Contemporary Dualism</i>, ed. A. Lavazza and H. Robinson. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R439"/>Skrbina, D. 2015. <i>The Metaphysics of Technology</i>. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R440"/>Smart, J. J. C. 1959. Sensations and brain processes. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 68: 141&#x2013;156.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R441"/>Smith, T. V. 1934. <i>From Thales to Plato</i>. Chicago University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R442"/>Spencer, H. 1855. <i>Principles of Psychology</i>, volume 1. Reprint: Appleton, 1897.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R443"/>Spencer, H. 1884. Religion: A retrospect and prospect. <i>Nineteenth Century</i> 15 (83): 1&#x2013;12.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R444"/>Spinoza, B. 1674. Letter to Schuller (#58). In <i>A Spinoza Reader</i>, ed. E. Curley (Princeton University Press, 1994).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R445"/>Spinoza, B. 1677. Ethics. In <i>A Spinoza Reader</i>, ed. E. Curley (Princeton University Press, 1994).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R446"/>Sprigge, T. 1983. <i>Vindication of Absolute Idealism</i>. Edinburgh University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R447"/>Sprigge, T. 1984. Santayana and panpsychism. <i>Bulletin of the Santayana Society</i> 2: 1&#x2013;18.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R448"/>Sprigge, T. 1991a. Are there intrinsic values in nature? In <i>Applied Philosophy</i>, ed. B. Almond and D. Hill. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R449"/>Sprigge, T. 1991b. Some recent positions in environmental ethics examined. <i>Inquiry</i> 34: 107&#x2013;128.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R450"/>Sprigge, T. 1993. <i>James and Bradley</i>. Open Court.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R451"/>Sprigge, T. 1998a. Panpsychism. In <i>Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>, ed. E. Craig. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R452"/>Sprigge, T. 1998b. Idealism. In <i>Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>, ed. E. Craig. Routledge.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R453"/>Stack, G. 2005. <i>Nietzsche&#x2019;s Anthropic Circle</i>. University of Rochester Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R454"/>Starchenko, N. 1994. Nikolai Lossky. In <i>A History of Russian Philosophy</i>, ed. V. Kuvakin. Prometheus Books.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R455"/>Stone, C. 1972. Should trees have standing? Towards legal rights for natural objects. <i>Southern California Law Review</i> 45: 450&#x2013;501.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R456"/>Stout, G. 1919a. <i>Mind &amp; Matter</i>. Reprint: Cambridge University Press, 1931.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R457"/>Stout, G. 1919b. <i>God &amp; Nature</i>. Reprint: Cambridge University Press, 1952.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R458"/>Strawson, G. 1994. <i>Mental Reality</i>. MIT Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R459"/>Strawson, G. 2003a. Real materialism. In <i>Chomsky and His Critics</i>, ed. L. Antony and N. Hornstein. Blackwell.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R460"/>Strawson, G. 2003b. What is the relation between an experience, the subject of the experience, and the content of the experience? <i><i>Philosophical Issues</i> </i>13: 279&#x2013;315.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R461"/>Strawson, G. 2006a. Realistic monism: Why physicalism entails panpsychism. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 13, no. 10&#x2013;11: 3&#x2013;31. Reprinted with same pagination in <i>Consciousness and its Place in Nature</i>, ed. A. Freeman. Imprint Academic.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R462"/>Strawson, G. 2006b. Panpsychism? Reply to commentators with a celebration of Descartes. <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> 13 (10&#x2013;11): 184&#x2013;280.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R463"/>Strawson, G. 2009. Realistic monism: Why physicalism entails panpsychism. (Revision of Strawson 2006). In <i>Mind That Abides</i>, ed. D. Skrbina. John Benjamins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R464"/>Strawson, G. 2015a. Real materialism (with new postscript). In <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, ed. T. Alter and Y. Nagasawa. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R465"/>Strawson, G. 2015b. Nietzsche&#x2019;s metaphysics? In <i>Nietzsche on Mind and Nature</i>, ed. M. Dries and P. Kail. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R466"/>Strawson, G. 2015c. Letters to the editor. <i>Times Literary Supplement</i> 20 (March).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R467"/>Strong, C. 1903. <i>Why the Mind Has a Body</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R468"/>Strong, C. 1904a. Dr. Morton Prince and panpsychism. <i>Psychological Review</i> 11: 67&#x2013;69.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R469"/>Strong, C. 1904b. Reply to Professor Bakewell. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 13 (3): 337&#x2013;342.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R470"/>Strong, C. 1918. <i>Origin of Consciousness</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R471"/>Strong, C. 1937. <i>A Creed for Skeptics</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R472"/>Stubenberg, L. 2015. Russell, Russellian monism, and panpsychism. In <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, ed. T. Alter and Y. Nagasawa. Oxford University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R473"/>Tallmadge, K. 1944. Nous and naturalism. <i>New Scholasticism</i> 18 (2): 185&#x2013;196.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R474"/>Teale, E. 1976. <i>The Wilderness World of John Muir</i>. Houghton Mifflin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R475"/>Teilhard de Chardin, P. 1941. The atomism of spirit. In Teilhard, <i>Activation of Energy</i> (Collins, 1970).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R476"/>Teilhard de Chardin, P. 1947. The place of technology. In Teilhard, <i>Activation of Energy</i> (Collins, 1970).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R477"/>Teilhard de Chardin, P. 1950. <i>The Heart of Matter</i>. Reprint: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1979.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R478"/>Teilhard de Chardin, P. 1952. The reflection of energy. In Teilhard, <i>Activation of Energy</i> (Collins, 1970).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R479"/>Teilhard de Chardin, P. 1959. <i>The Phenomenon of Man</i>. Harper and Row.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R480"/>Teilhard de Chardin, P. 1970. <i>Activation of Energy</i>. Collins.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R481"/>Telesio, B. 1586. <i>On the Nature of Things</i> (<i>De rerum natura</i>). In <i>Renaissance Philosophy</i>, volume 1, ed. A. Fallico and H. Shapiro (Random House, 1967).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R482"/>Theise, N., and Kafatos, C. 2013. Sentience everywhere: Complexity theory, panpsychism, and the role of sentience in self-organization of the universe. <i>Journal of Consciousness Exploration and Research</i> 4 (4): 378&#x2013;390.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R483"/>Thiese, N., and Kafatos, C. 2016. Fundamental awareness. <i>Communicative and Integrative Biology</i> 9 (3): e1155010.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R484"/>Thoreau, H. 1851. <i>Journal</i>, volume 4. Reprint: Princeton University Press, 1981.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R485"/>Thoreau, H. 2000. <i>Wild Fruits</i>. Norton.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R486"/>Tononi, G. 2012. Integrated information theory of consciousness: An updated account. <i>Archives Italiennes de Biologie</i> 150 (4): 293&#x2013;329.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R487"/>Tononi, G. 2012b. <i>Phi: A Voyage from the Brain to the Soul</i>. Pantheon.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R488"/>Tononi, G., and Koch, C. 2015. Consciousness: Here, there, and everywhere? <i>Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B</i> 370, no. 1668.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R489"/>Trepanier, S. 2004. <i>Empedocles: An Interpretation</i>. Taylor &amp; Francis.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R490"/>Troland, L. 1918. Paraphysical monism. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 27 (1): 39&#x2013;62.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R491"/>Troland, L. 1922. Psychophysics as the key to the mysteries of physics and of metaphysics. <i>Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences</i> 12 (6): 141&#x2013;162.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R492"/>Tye, M. 2000. <i>Consciousness, Color, and Content</i>. MIT Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R5005"/>Uzgalis, W. 2011. <i>The Correspondence of Samuel Clarke and Anthony Collins, 1707&#x2013;08</i>. Broadview.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R493"/>Van Cleve, J. 1990. Mind-dust or magic? Panpsychism versus emergence. <i>Philosophical Perspectives</i> 4: 215&#x2013;226.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R494"/>Vartanian, A. 1960. Introduction. In <i>J. LaMettrie, L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i>. Princeton University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R495"/>Velmans, M. 2007. The co-evolution of matter and consciousness. <i>Synthesis Philosophica</i> 44 (2): 273&#x2013;282.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R496"/>Vietor, K. 1950. <i>Goethe the Thinker</i>. Harvard University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R497"/>Waddington, C. 1961. <i>The Nature of Life</i>. Allen and Unwin.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R498"/>Walker, E. 1970. The nature of consciousness. <i>Mathematical Biosciences</i> 7: 131&#x2013;178.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R499"/>Weber, M. 2009. Hypnosis: Panpsychism in action. In <i>Handbook of Whiteheadian Process Thought</i>, ed. M. Weber and W. Desmond. De Gruyter.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R500"/>Wendt, A. 2015. <i>Quantum Mind and Social Science</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R501"/>Wheeler, J. 1994. It from bit. In <i>At Home in the Universe</i>. American Institute of Physics.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R502"/>Wheeler, J. 2002. John Wheeler responds. <i>Discover</i> 23 (8).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R503"/>White, L., Jr. 1967. The historical roots of our ecologic crisis. <i>Science</i> 155 (3767): 1203&#x2013;1207.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R504"/>White, L., Jr. 1973. Continuing the conversation. In <i>Western Man and Environmental Ethic</i>, ed. I. Barbour. Addison-Wesley.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R505"/>Whitehead, A. 1925. <i>Science and the Modern World</i>. Reprint: Free Press, 1967.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R506"/>Whitehead, A. 1926a. <i>Religion in the Making</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R507"/>Whitehead, A. 1926b. Time. In L. Ford, <i>The Emergence of Whitehead&#x2019;s Metaphysic, 1925&#x2013;1929</i> (SUNY Press, 1984).</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R508"/>Whitehead, A. 1929. <i>Process and Reality</i>. Reprint: Free Press, 1978.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R509"/>Whitehead, A. 1933. <i>Adventures of Ideas</i>. Reprint: Free Press, 1967.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R510"/>Whitehead, A. 1938. <i>Modes of Thought</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R511"/>Whitehead, A. 1941. Immortality. In <i>The Philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead</i>, ed. P. Schilpp. Northwestern University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R512"/>Wilber, K. 1995. <i>Sex, Ecology, Spirituality</i>. Shambhala.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R513"/>Wilber, K. 2000. <i>Integral Psychology</i>. Shambhala.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R5006"/>Williams, L. 2001. <i>Nietzsche&#x2019;s Mirror</i>. Rowman &amp; Littlefield.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R514"/>Wittgenstein, L. 1953. <i>Philosophical Investigations</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R515"/>Wolfson, H. 1937. Spinoza&#x2019;s mechanism, attributes, and panpsychism. <i>Philosophical Review</i> 46 (3): 307&#x2013;314.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R516"/>Woodward, W. 1972. Fechner&#x2019;s panpsychism. <i>Journal of the History of the Behavioral Sciences</i> 8: 367&#x2013;386.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R517"/>Wright, W. 1947. <i>A History of Modern Philosophy</i>. Macmillan.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R518"/>Wright, S. 1953. Gene and organism. <i>American Naturalist</i> 87 (5): 5&#x2013;18.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R519"/>Wright, S. 1964. Biology and the philosophy of science. <i>Monist</i> 48: 265&#x2013;290.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R520"/>Wright, S. 1977. Panpsychism and science. In <i>Mind in Nature</i>, ed. J. Cobb and D. Griffin. University Press of America.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R521"/>Wundt, W. 1892/1894. <i>Lectures on Human and Animal Psychology</i>. S. Sonnenschein.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R522"/>Young, J. 2010. <i>Friedrich Nietzsche: A Philosophical Biography</i>. Cambridge University Press.</li>
<li class="bibliographyEntry"><a id="R523"/>Zohar, D. 1990. <i>The Quantum Self</i>. Bloomsbury.</li></ol></section></body></html>