<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Panpsychism in the Years 1900&#x2013;1950</title><link href="MIT_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/></head><body><header>
<h1>7&#x2003;<span class="chapterTitle"><a id="d2e69"/>Panpsychism in the Years 1900&#x2013;1950</span></h1></header>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Vigorous discussion of panpsychism continued into the 1900s. William James, Josiah Royce, and Morton Prince published important new works (cited in the preceding chapter). A significant number of major philosophers&#x2014;among them Henri Bergson, Ferdinand Schiller, John Dewey, Alfred North Whitehead, and Bertrand Russell&#x2014;entered the debate, offering important insights on behalf of panpsychism. Additional support came from such diverse thinkers as Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, Charles Hartshorne, Samuel Alexander, Charles Strong, Nicholai Lossky, William Montague, and Leonard Troland.</p>
<section>
<h2><a id="S1"/>7.1&#x2003;<a id="d2e94"/>Bergson and the Early-Twentieth-Century Panpsychists</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In 1903, Charles Strong (1862&#x2013;1940) published <i>Why the Mind Has a Body</i>, a work that continued the Schopenhauerian argument that things-in-themselves have a mind-like nature. Like Schopenhauer, Strong interpreted this as a fundamentally panpsychist ontology. James was impressed with the book; he called it &#x201C;a wonderful piece of clear and thorough work&#x2014;quite classical in fact, and surely destined to renown.&#x201D;<a id="FN1a"/><a href="#FN1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>
<p><i>Why the Mind Has a Body</i> is presented as a kind of textbook on the state of philosophy of mind. It addresses various arguments for interactionism and parallelism, each in a variety of forms. As was usual at the time, Strong doesn&#x2019;t present an objective study but rather steers the reader toward a particular viewpoint: &#x201C;psycho-physical idealism.&#x201D; In support of that viewpoint, he makes arguments by Continuity and Non-Emergence<a id="FN2a"/><a href="#FN2"><sup>2</sup></a> (287&#x2013;293). Though he doesn&#x2019;t explicitly mention the word &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019; until the very end, it is clear that he takes the panpsychist worldview. That &#x201C;thought [is] to be extended to inorganic matter [thus] making mind omnipresent in nature&#x201D; is said to be &#x201C;precisely the conclusion at which we have arrived&#x201D; (291&#x2013;292). In closing the book, Strong admits that he has no &#x201C;positive conception&#x201D; of the mentality that underlies all things, and thus is in no position to effectively argue whether this mentality &#x201C;consist[s] of as many separate feelings as there are atoms, or of one great feeling or consciousness, or of something between the two&#x201D; (354).</p>
<p>The missing analysis of mind was addressed in Strong&#x2019;s next book, <i>Origin of Consciousness</i> (1918), in which he explicitly advocated a panpsychist outlook. Regarding the nature of the mental, Strong adopts and expands on Clifford&#x2019;s mind-stuff theory. Mind-stuff, he writes, has four central qualities: It is &#x201C;in space,&#x201D; &#x201C;in time,&#x201D; and &#x201C;capable of change,&#x201D; and most important, it &#x201C;possesses the psychic character.&#x201D; The last quality is &#x201C;the core of the whole matter, without which our panpsychism would be merely materialism&#x201D; (319). Manifest in humans as &#x201C;attention,&#x201D; it is, more generally, an intensity or vividness of experience that varies with the nature of the material object&#x2014;an &#x201C;accumulation of energy in a psychic state&#x201D; (320).</p>
<p>In <i>Origin of Consciousness</i> Strong also addresses a potentially major weakness of the mind-stuff view: the combination problem. Any mind-stuff theory, he observes, necessarily adopts an atomistic conception of mind. Innumerable &#x201C;minute feelings&#x201D; must fuse to create a single high-level psychic state. A human, as a large-scale organism, lacks the perceptive ability to differentiate these many atomistic feelings, and thus by default experiences them collectively as a whole: &#x201C;The fact of the case &#x2026; is not that we [directly] perceive the unanalyzable feeling to be one, but only that we are unable to perceive it to be many. This, of course, in no way interferes with its actually being many.&#x201D; (310) Just as ordinary objects appear to us as solid only because we are unable to see the individual atoms, so too our subjective feelings feel as one only because we cannot differentiate its components. Hence Strong&#x2019;s novel solution: Combination is an illusion, owing to our cognitive limitations. It is an epistemological problem, not an ontological problem.</p>
<p>It was clear to contemporary readers that Strong &#x201C;regarded a panpsychistic metaphysics as the key to the mind-body problem,&#x201D; writes Klausner (1967: 273). Also clear, unfortunately, was &#x201C;the tremendous difficulty of presenting [this] in a convincing way.&#x201D; Strong explicitly admitted that, with a definite note of resignation: &#x201C;The difficulty of making people believe that there is in suns and atoms anything of the nature of feeling is so mountainous that I sometimes wish I had devoted my energies to something else.&#x201D; (1937: 5) Nonetheless, Strong stands out as one of the more consistent and open advocates of panpsychism in the first part of the twentieth century.</p>
<p>In 1905, William Montague (1873&#x2013;1953) wrote a short piece, titled &#x201C;Panpsychism and Monism,&#x201D; in which he defended Strong&#x2019;s panpsychism against criticisms raised by Theodore Flournoy&#x2014;the primary one being that panpsychism is &#x201C;merely verbal&#x201D; and thus &#x201C;methodologically useless.&#x201D; This is a standard mechanistic critique. The inner mental experiences of non-human things are inherently unknowable, and thus unverifiable. They further seem to be epiphenomenal, having no causal effects in the physical world. Empirical evidence, such as a magnet&#x2019;s motive power, can be described without recourse to any intrinsic noetic abilities. Of course, panpsychism is &#x201C;methodologically useless&#x201D; only if one chooses to ignore the broader implications. Clearly there are many potential ways in which one&#x2019;s thoughts, actions, or values could be altered by adopting a panpsychist outlook.</p>
<p>In a 1912 article, &#x201C;A Realistic Theory of Truth and Error,&#x201D; Montague contrasted materialism&#x2014;or &#x201C;panhylism&#x201D;&#x2014;with two forms of panpsychism: a positive view (all matter &#x201C;has something psychical about it&#x201D;) and a negative view (&#x201C;all matter is nothing but psychical&#x201D;). After criticizing the negative or idealist version, Montague lays out his own theory, a positive variation of panpsychism that he calls <i>hylopsychism</i>. It is a brief and rather cryptic theory, but it attempts to make some interesting connections between time, energy, and mind.<a id="FN3a"/><a href="#FN3"><sup>3</sup></a> He seems to be operating more on intuition than on formal reasoning, and this suggests that there must be a path allowing for all things to participate in mind without their being at root either pure mind or pure matter.</p>
<p>Montague continued his defense for decades. A late piece, &#x201C;Human Soul and Cosmic Mind&#x201D; (1945), further develops the connection between energy and mind. In it he argues that the physical manifestation of mind occurs as potential energy&#x2014;a scientific concept defined as any system capable of doing work, such as a compressed spring or an object raised up into the air. Potential energy is ubiquitous in nature, and if it is equivalent to mind then mind is universal: &#x201C;If mental states are identical with forms of potential energy then the extent to which some sort of mental reality is present in the universe will be the extent to which potential energy is present&#x2014;and that is everywhere.&#x201D; (1945: 60)</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">One of the most important and visionary philosophers of the turn of the twentieth century was Henri Bergson (1859&#x2013;1941). His philosophical system is complex, insightful, and unusually difficult to categorize. His central themes of time and evolution tend to paint him as a process philosopher, but his discussions of mind, creativity, freedom, and numerous other themes make for an intricate, emotionally powerful, and often enigmatic philosophy.</p>
<p>One of the more striking features of Bergson&#x2019;s thought is his flirtation with panpsychism. At times he seems to believe that mind, consciousness, or life pervades the universe and animates all matter, and yet he always stops short of clearly advocating a fully panpsychist or hylozoist position. His suggestive writings began in the late nineteenth century, one of the first being <i>Matter and Memory</i> (1896). He wrote of a phylogenic continuum from matter to life, the latter culminating in the human species: &#x201C;[W]e can conceive an infinite number of degrees between matter and fully developed spirit. &#x2026; Each of these successive degrees, which measures a growing intensity of life, corresponds to a higher tension of duration.&#x201D; (221)</p>
<p>The concept of duration implies time, and in the realm of life this implies memory. As the complexity of organisms increases, so too does the corresponding element of memory. Humans have the greatest capacity for memory; matter has none, yet matter still possesses pure perception&#x2014;that is, perception without memory. &#x201C;Now,&#x201D; Bergson writes, &#x201C;as we have shown, pure perception, which is the lowest degree of mind&#x2014;mind without memory&#x2014;is really part of matter, as we understand matter.&#x201D; (222) In the book&#x2019;s conclusion, he characterizes consciousness as a universal phenomenon that somehow counterbalances individual beings and minds, unifying them while allowing them their uniqueness. &#x201C;No doubt,&#x201D; he says, &#x201C;the material universe itself, defined as the totality of images, is a kind of consciousness, &#x2026; a consciousness of which all the potential parts &#x2026; reciprocally hinder each other from standing out.&#x201D; (235) He refers repeatedly to the &#x201C;confluence of mind and matter,&#x201D; of &#x201C;seeing the one flow into the other&#x201D;&#x2014;again, with matter representing pure perception and mind representing pure memory. Ultimately he concludes, in a manner not unlike that of the ancient Greeks, that movement itself is mind-like because it necessarily involves duration (i.e., continuation) and memory:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Only one hypothesis, then, remains possible: namely, that concrete movement, capable, like consciousness, of prolonging its past into its present, capable, by repeating itself, of engendering sensible qualities, already possesses something akin to consciousness, something akin to sensation. (247)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Nature, on this reading, is a latent consciousness with the inherent power of mind.</p>
<p>We find similarly suggestive passages in Bergson&#x2019;s most famous book, <i>Creative Evolution</i> (1907). Recalling Schopenhauer, he calls &#x201C;pure willing&#x201D; the &#x201C;current that runs through matter, communicating life to it&#x201D; (260). In an almost hylozoistic manner he argues that both matter and life are like an &#x201C;undivided flux,&#x201D; each interpenetrating the other. But he is silent on any further implications or articulations of panpsychism.</p>
<p>A lecture Bergson delivered in 1911 at the University of Birmingham was included, under the title &#x201C;Life and Consciousness,&#x201D; in a volume published in French as <i>L&#x2019;Energie spirituelle</i> and in English translation as <i>Mind-Energy</i>. In his preface to English edition, the translator, H. Wildon Carr, comments that just as the earlier conceptions of physical reality have been unified under the concept of energy, so too can the ultimate psychical reality be described as such: &#x201C;[The] dynamic conception of psychical reality has replaced the older concept of mind [identified with awareness or consciousness], and the physical analogy suggests energy as the most expressive term for it.&#x201D; (in Bergson 1911/1920: vi)</p>
<p>In the published version of the lecture, Bergson argues for an identity between mind and consciousness, and posits memory&#x2014;along with &#x201C;anticipation of the future&#x201D;&#x2014;as a leading feature of consciousness. &#x201C;<i>In principle</i>,&#x201D; he then claims, &#x201C;consciousness is co-extensive with life.&#x201D; (11) As to whether inert matter has any aspects of mind, he claims that &#x201C;matter is necessity, consciousness is freedom.&#x201D; Yet mind is an energy-form that somehow inserts itself into matter and animates it&#x2014;something that can happen only if the two are fundamentally linked:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">We may surmise that these two realities, matter and consciousness, are derived from a common source. If &#x2026; matter is the inverse of consciousness &#x2026; then neither matter nor consciousness can be explained apart from one another. (23)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Matter would not be receptive to life unless it had a preexisting and inherent tendency to it. &#x201C;In other words, life must have installed itself in a matter which had already acquired some of the characters of life without the work of life.&#x201D; (26&#x2013;27) Again, highly suggestive, but something less than outright panpsychism.</p>
<p>The last and perhaps clearest indication comes from <i>Duration and Simultaneity</i> (1922), which contains Bergson&#x2019;s strongest statement of his process philosophy. All space-time events proceed literally from moment to moment, each phase at once both something new and something old. Every event retains some aspect of preceding events; otherwise there would be no continuity to the world. Things persist in space and in time, energy flows continuously, and characteristics and qualities carry over from past into future. There are both novelty and stability in all aspects of reality. The aspect of stability, of the carryover of past into future, is, again, an aspect of memory. The future always remembers the past, if only to a small degree, even as it creates something new. Thus memory necessarily inheres in all things. Since memory is equated with mind, the obvious conclusion is that mind is in all things. Bergson is notably clear on this point:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">What we wish to establish is that we cannot speak of a reality that endures without inserting consciousness into it. &#x2026; It is impossible to imagine or conceive a connecting link between the before and after without an element of memory and, consequently, of consciousness.</p>
<p>We may perhaps feel averse to the use of the word &#x201C;consciousness&#x201D; if an anthropomorphic sense is attached to it. [But] there is no need to take one&#x2019;s own memory and transport it, even attenuated, into the interior of the thing. &#x2026; It is the opposite course we must follow. &#x2026; Duration is essentially a continuation of what no longer exists into what does exist. This is real time, perceived and lived. &#x2026; Duration therefore implies consciousness; and we place consciousness at the heart of things for the very reason that we credit them with a time that endures. (1922/1965: 48&#x2013;49)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Capek (1971: 302) calls this passage &#x201C;the basis of Bergson&#x2019;s panpsychism,&#x201D; noting that it makes little difference whether we apply the term &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019;, the description &#x201C;organic view of nature,&#x201D; or the term &#x2018;proto-mentalism&#x2019;. The net result is the same: &#x201C;there is no question that [Bergson] regarded physical events as &#x2018;proto-mental&#x2019;&#x201D; (308).<a id="FN4a"/><a href="#FN4"><sup>4</sup></a></p>
<p>In the end Bergson&#x2019;s panpsychism is still perplexing. The relevant passages are somewhat isolated, and the deeper implications seem to be unexplored. Bergson never explicitly mentions panpsychism, nor does he discuss other comparable theories, nor does he cite any of the extensive history on the matter. This is due in part to his writing style, but one is still left wanting further elaboration.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S2"/>7.2&#x2003;<a id="d2e226"/>Schiller</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">A major milestone in the development of panpsychist philosophy occurred in 1907: the publication of Ferdinand Schiller&#x2019;s book <i>Studies in Humanism.</i> Schiller (1864&#x2013;1937) is best known as a humanist and pragmatist, and his unique interpretation of these approaches was original and insightful. The four major pragmatist philosophers of the early twentieth century&#x2014;Peirce, James, Dewey, and Schiller&#x2014;all held panpsychist views. Yet this fact doesn&#x2019;t appear to bear directly on pragmatism, which traditionally includes the notion that truth is not absolute but depends in some sense on human interaction and the notion that the critical factor in a philosophical theory is its consequence, its implications in the real world. Perhaps openness to panpsychism is attributable to the flexibility of thought engendered by pragmatism&#x2014;the willingness to repudiate standard or fixed notions of truth&#x2014;and to a view of experience as an ongoing process that is in some sense constitutive of both subject and object.</p>
<p>Schiller took up the personal and subjective aspects of pragmatism and developed them in light of a deeply humanistic and panpsychic perspective. Even in his first major book, <i>Riddles of the Sphinx</i> (1891), he demonstrates an openly panpsychist worldview. The central idea of that book is that matter is driven by evolutionary forces toward an ever-greater form of spirit, and in fact is essentially a spiritual substance: &#x201C;Matter ultimately [is] but a form of the Evolution of Spirit.&#x201D; (276) This is a striking interpretation of evolution, anticipating many of the ideas that Teilhard would take up some 40 years later. Schiller observes&#x2014;as Teilhard would&#x2014;that &#x201C;the single process of Evolution is a correlated development of both [matter and spirit]&#x201D; (288). He also anticipates Teilhard&#x2019;s thesis of complexity-consciousness: &#x201C;the growth of the complexity of material organization should be the invariable accompaniment of the growth of consciousness.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Schiller&#x2019;s panpsychist idealism draws heavily on scientific ideas for confirmation. He reiterates the dynamist position that atoms are simply centers of force, and that force, as an ontological category, is to be interpreted as a spiritual or mental entity:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Force is a conception which inevitably implies the spiritual character of ultimate reality. Historically it is undeniable that Force is depersonalized Will, that the prototype of Force is Will. &#x2026; The [related] sense of Effort also &#x2026; is irresistibly suggestive of the action of a spiritual being. For how can there be effort without intelligence and will? (274)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The reference to Schopenhauer&#x2019;s system is clear. In the end, a form of intelligence exists in all levels of matter. The force-atoms can properly be thought of as monad-like spiritual things possessing proto-mental characteristics: &#x201C;it is not very much more difficult to conceive of an atom as possessing rudimentary consciousness and individuality&#x201D; (277).</p>
<p>Schiller observes that most contemporary forms of idealism are classically humanist, in that mind either requires or is reflected in human mentality. Evolution shows that the Earth existed long before humans, and critics have used this fact to argue that without spiritual beings there could be no idealism. His &#x201C;evolutionary idealism&#x201D; answers that objection by claiming that &#x201C;material evolution is an integral part of the world-process, and obeys the same law as spiritual evolution.&#x201D; Thus we must rightly conceive of atoms as &#x201C;spiritual beings,&#x201D; for &#x201C;the material is but an earlier and less perfect phase of the spiritual development&#x201D; (306).</p>
<p>These early themes are developed more fully in Schiller&#x2019;s 1907 book <i>Studies in Humanism</i>, in which the notions of truth and reality are central. He directly challenges the dominant mechanistic view of objective reality, of a reality unaffected by the thoughts and perceptions of the observer. Objective reality implies a notion of absolute truth, fixed and eternal, awaiting our discovery. For Schiller such ideas are nonsensical. Both truth and reality are literally created by human beings. Our minds, working on the raw chaos of the material world, condition and shape that which we ultimately call facts or reality. Humans are active participants in the world; the making of truth is &#x201C;an active endeavor, in which our whole nature is engaged&#x201D; (425). He is emphatic: &#x201C;reality can, as such and wholly, be engendered by the consequences of our dealings with it&#x201D; (428).</p>
<p>Schiller takes our &#x201C;making of truth&#x201D; and &#x201C;making of reality&#x201D; to be central to any acceptable epistemology. The mere act of knowing, of encountering and contemplating, changes both the knower and the known. The knower is affected by his encounter with any given object; his active selection of things and his reactive bodily states are the most direct ways in which he is changed. The object known is affected either by physical consequences of being known or by its sensitivity to the state of the knower&#x2014;something like when an actor suffers stage fright as a result of &#x201C;being known&#x201D; by the audience. Since obviously both the knower and the known are aspects of reality, it is clear that reality is actually changed by the act of knowing.</p>
<p>One can perhaps see how humans or the so-called higher animals may be affected by the processes of knowing and being known. But what about the lower animals, or plants, or inanimate objects? Schiller is adamant that <i>all</i> objects are altered by such processes. He takes the standard example: a stone&#x2014;an object that displays an &#x201C;apparent absence of response&#x201D; and seems utterly unconcerned about its environment. But this apparent unresponsiveness is illusory:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">A stone, no doubt, does not apprehend us as spiritual beings. &#x2026; But does this amount to saying that it does not apprehend us at all, and takes no note whatever of our existence? Not at all; it is aware of us and affected by us on the plane on which its own existence is passed. &#x2026; It faithfully exercises all the physical functions, and influences us by so doing. It gravitates and resists pressure, and obstructs &#x2026; vibrations, etc., and makes itself respected as such a body. And it treats us as if of a like nature with itself, on the level of its understanding &#x2026; . (442)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The common world of knowledge, the common reality between a person and a stone, is clearly not the same level of complexity as that between two people, but it is no less real. It is a brute plane of existence, one of mass, force, and temperature; it is one in which the two objects, knower and known, come together with different histories and different sensitivities. The stone &#x201C;plays its part and responds according to the measure of its capacity.&#x201D; Schiller responds to the charge that this view is &#x201C;sheer hylozoism&#x201D; as follows: &#x201C;What if it is, so long as it really brings out a genuine analogy? The notion that &#x2018;matter&#x2019; must be denounced as &#x2018;dead&#x2019; &#x2026; no longer commends itself to modern science.&#x201D; (443) He then correctly notes that his outlook is best described as panpsychism&#x2014;as seeing all things with a mind analogous to that of a human. This is why he emphasizes that his view is that of humanism. And it also is humanistic in the sense that it seeks to fully and deeply integrate the human into the universe. After all, the true end objective of any valid system of philosophy is &#x201C;to make the human and the cosmic more akin, and to bring them closer to us, that we may act upon them more successfully.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Thus Schiller makes his case that, in the process of knowing, both the knower and the known are altered, changed, re-made. The critic may reply with the charge that this is not what one means by &#x201C;making reality,&#x201D; but that is beside the point. Of course Schiller doesn&#x2019;t mean that we can create something out of nothing, or that we have some strange paranormal powers. We work with the stuff of the universe, which is meaningless and in a sense non-existent in itself until we act on it and make it something known, something real.</p>
<p>Schiller was the first to make the leap of understanding and to see that all things have an aspect of mentality after the manner of the human, and that therefore all things, not just humans, have some power to make reality. This is not merely panpsychism, but an articulated theory of mind as an active and universal quality. He is very explicit on this point: Humanism, as he conceives it, sees &#x201C;the occurrence of something essentially analogous to the human making of reality throughout the universe&#x201D; (437).</p>
<p>Such a theory of mind has gone completely unexamined by twentieth-century philosophers&#x2014;predictably so, because it was in direct opposition to the positivism and realism that has dominated recent discussions. And yet, Schiller argued, something approaching a realist position is obtained, because of our common human physiology, culture, and history. Of course, the common world among humans will be different from the one that includes other animals, or the one with inanimate objects. Such a view might be called a qualified or conditional realism. Of recent philosophers, only Skolimowski (1994) has developed this line of thinking further.</p>
<p>Schiller maintained this overall philosophical outlook throughout his subsequent writings. In one of his last works, <i>Logic for Use</i> (1929), he reiterates many of the themes found in <i>Studies of Humanism</i>. In discussing the meaning of humans as makers of reality, he comments: &#x201C;For what is real and true for us depends on our selecting interests: the answers we get follow from the questions we put.&#x201D; (445) He emphasizes his pragmatism and his thesis of action: &#x201C;Real knowledge does not lie idle&#x2014;it colours our life. We act on it, and act differently. So reality is altered, not only <i>in</i> us but <i>through</i> us.&#x201D; And he again points out that every object has some qualified power to make reality and to display dynamic sensitivity to the world:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[W]e can say that inanimate objects also are responsive to each other, and modify their behavior accordingly. A stone is not indifferent to other stones. On the contrary, it is attracted by every material body in the physical world. &#x2026; The stone responds, after its fashion, to our manipulation. Treat them differently, and they behave differently: that is as true of stones as of men. (447)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Thus all objects participate in a common world based on their own capacities and sensitivities. From Schiller&#x2019;s panpsychist perspective, this is the process by which things collectively create an inter-subjective world. Panpsychism is the true and only basis for a reified existence.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S3"/>7.3&#x2003;<a id="d2e315"/>Alexander, Lossky, Troland, and Dewey</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In 1914 Samuel Alexander (1859&#x2013;1938) published an important article titled &#x201C;The Basis of Realism.&#x201D; Alexander was, along with Moore, Russell, James, Holt, and Montague, one of the so-called new realists; they argued, among other things, that objects exist independent of the human mind, but not necessarily of mind in general. Alexander proposed a metaphysical system for an evolving universe in which there are six levels of emergent reality: space-time, primary qualities of matter, secondary qualities of matter, life, animal mind, and deity. This emergent hierarchy is significant for two reasons. First, it indicates his conception of an evolutionary universe, moving from space and time through matter, life, and on to God. Alexander was one of the first philosophers, along with Schiller, to envision such a grand sweep of evolution, and he thereby anticipated some of the more important ideas of Teilhard and Skolimowski.<a id="FN5a"/><a href="#FN5"><sup>5</sup></a> Second, it emphasizes his unique dual conception of mind: mind in the ordinary human sense, and mind as a more ontological and panpsychist reality. On the latter view, mind is seen as representing the connection between levels in the hierarchy. In particular, each specific level functions as the mind of the levels below. At the level of space-time, space is seen as primary, time as secondary; thus Alexander can claim that &#x201C;time is the mind of space.&#x201D; Similarly, life is seen, when viewed from below, as the mind of space, time, and matter. We humans are the &#x201C;mind of life,&#x201D; and we tend to identify this mind as true mind only because it is our privileged point of view.</p>
<p>The central point of &#x201C;The Basis of Realism&#x201D; is that our cognitive relationship with things is essentially the same as the relationship between any two objects. Alexander (1914/1960: 189) first notes that &#x201C;mind and things are continuous in kind.&#x201D; This continuity between knower and known is described as one of &#x201C;compresence,&#x201D; or co-present existence. Thus, he writes, &#x201C;our compresence with physical things &#x2026; is a situation of the same sort as the compresence of two physical things with one another&#x201D; (191), or, more generally, &#x201C;between any two existences in the world whatsoever.&#x201D;<a id="FN6a"/><a href="#FN6"><sup>6</sup></a> The focus is on the comprehension of things of an equal or lower order in the ontological hierarchy:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Mind enjoys itself and contemplates life and physical things. The living being, the tree, enjoys itself and contemplates the air it breathes. &#x2026; The distinction may be carried further down &#x2026; and it may be carried up [to the realm of the divine]. &#x2026; The universe consists of distinct real existences of different order, compresent with each other and &#x201C;knowing&#x201D; each other in such measure as is possible to them at their various stages of development. (195)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">He concludes the essay with an argument by analogy:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[M]atter receives much more [potency] than materialism credits it with. &#x2026; It is even possible that the union of body and mind which we find in the human person may turn out in the end to be typical of every form of existence from the lowest to the highest and perhaps of the universe as a whole.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Thus he argues on the basis of first principles for panpsychism, defining mind as integral to the very structure of reality.</p>
<p>In perhaps his most famous work, <i>Space, Time, and Deity</i> (1920), Alexander develops these ideas further, rejecting strict parallelism between the physical and psychical and opting to see mind as an emergent aspect of each level of existence. The standard response to anti-parallelism is, he says, some form of animism in which the psychical is present in all things but is independent of the physical (volume II: 12&#x2013;13). Instead of animism, he proposes a panpsychist quasi-identity theory in which physical events are causal on the physical, mental events are causal on the mental, many physical events are identical to their corresponding mental events, but some physical events have no mental counterpart. Each emergent mental level is &#x201C;expressible completely or without residue in terms of the lower stage&#x201D; (67). The mind is therefore &#x201C;equivalent only to a portion of [a] thing&#x201D;; that is, it is a subset of the total entity. Alexander thus arrives at a hierarchical form of panpsychism, with higher levels of mind building on lower levels:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">For though matter has no life, it has something which plays in it the part which life plays in the living organism and mind plays in the person; and even on the lowest level of existence [i.e. motion], any motion has its soul, which is time. Thus matter is not merely dead as if there was nothing in it akin to life. It is only dead in that it is not as alive as organisms are. &#x2026; We are compelled to the conclusion that all finite existence is alive, or in a certain sense animated. (67)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The human mind is an emergent phenomenon of our lower levels of existence&#x2014;our life, our matter, etc.&#x2014;and this is a process that is repeated universally; &#x201C;everywhere this result appears to be secured as it is in our own persons.&#x201D; Hence, &#x201C;all existence is linked in a chain of affinity, and there is nothing which does not in virtue of its constitution respond to ourselves &#x2026; ; so there is nothing dead, or senseless in the universe, [even] Space-Time itself being animated&#x201D; (69).</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The early years of the twentieth century witnessed a minor wave of panpsychist thinking in Russia. Among the more notable philosophers in that vein was Peter Ouspensky (or Uspenskii) (1878&#x2013;1947). In <i>Tertium Organum</i> (1912/1981) he elaborates a startlingly clear and explicit panpsychism; in places, it is unparalleled in its candor. Adopting a strong form of the Continuity argument, Ouspensky argues passionately that, since man is alive and enspirited and is an integral part of nature, these same phenomena must be omnipresent:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">If intelligence exists in the world, then intelligence must exist in everything, although it may be different in its manifestations. &#x2026; There can be nothing dead or mechanical in Nature. If life and feeling exist at all, they must exist in everything. &#x2026; We must admit that every phenomenon, every object has a mind. <i>A mountain, a tree, a river, the fish in the river, drops of water, rain, a plant, fire</i>&#x2014;each separately must possess a mind of its own. (1912/1981: 165&#x2013;166)</p></blockquote>
<p>Shortly after the release of <i>Tertium Organum</i>, Nicholai Lossky (or Losskii) (1870&#x2013;1965) published an important book detailing a panpsychist ontology: <i>Mir kak organicheskoe tseloe</i> (<i>The World as an Organic Whole</i>) (1917/1928). Lossky was the most influential of the Russian neo-Leibnizians, a Christian-oriented movement that began in the 1880s with Alexey Kozlov. For his part, Kozlov envisioned a form of monadology in which the monads, unlike Leibniz&#x2019;s variation, had the essential ability to interact. These interacting, spiritual, conscious monads were conceived as the basis of all reality. Lossky elaborated on Kozlov&#x2019;s system in the 1901 article &#x201C;Kozlov: His Panpsychism.&#x201D;<a id="FN7a"/><a href="#FN7"><sup>7</sup></a></p>
<p>Lossky called his system &#x201C;intuitivism.&#x201D; It was more articulated and far-reaching than Kozlov&#x2019;s, incorporating a radical interpretation of Christian metaphysics. Aligned with both the new realism of Alexander and Montague and the classical idealism of Berkeley, intuitivism held that perception is reality&#x2014;that is, that reality is identical to that which is presented in the mind of the perceiver. &#x201C;Knowledge,&#x201D; Lossky writes, &#x201C;is not a copy &#x2026; but reality itself.&#x201D;<a id="FN8a"/><a href="#FN8"><sup>8</sup></a> Following Leibniz, he argues that the world is composed of innumerable &#x201C;substantival agents,&#x201D; each superspatial and supertemporal, each interacting with the entire cosmos, and each creating reality through cognitive acts. This is the basis for the vision elaborated in <i>The World as an Organic Whole</i>. All objects of the material world, including humans, other animals, plants, rocks, the Earth, are in fact just substantival agents in different stages of evolution. Natural processes, forces, and events are all the result of actions of such agents. This was Lossky&#x2019;s view even many years later:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[A]ll events, all processes&#x2014;i.e. all real being&#x2014;are created by substantival agents: the singing of a tune, the experiencing of feelings or desires is the manifestation of some self. Acts of attraction and repulsion and movements in space are produced by human beings and also by electrons, protons, etc., in so far as substantival agents also lie at their basis. (1951: 253)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">These agents are to be conceived as spiritual entities, and thus the world is profoundly ensouled. Starchenko (1994: 661) explains that, on Lossky&#x2019;s view, spirituality &#x201C;is spread throughout the world, even through material nature, but in discrete, strictly apportioned portions, so that even a small portion of rock crystal had a special &#x2018;indistinct soul&#x2019; that aspired to a definite goal known only to it.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Substantival agents fundamentally reflect human personhood, and thus are to be considered as persons in their own right. These persons are structured in a hierarchical fashion, from subatomic particles up to the cosmos itself. Each level of being, and each object or system within those levels, is a &#x201C;person of persons,&#x201D; both composed of lesser agents and a part of larger-scale ones. This is Lossky&#x2019;s doctrine of hierarchical personalism; it recalls both Cardano&#x2019;s and Fechner&#x2019;s hierarchical views of the world, but is more explicit and more articulated. Agents surrender a portion of their independence to enter into alliances, forming larger-scale beings:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The combination of several agents &#x2026; is a means of attaining more complex stages of existence. &#x2026; That results in such a hierarchy of unities as an atom, a molecule, a crystal, a unicellular organism, a multicellular organism, a community of organisms like a beehive or a nest of termites; in the sphere of the human life there are nations and mankind as a whole; further, there is our planet, the solar system, the universe. Each subsequent stage of unification possesses higher creative powers than the preceding and is headed by a personality on a higher stage of developments. (1951: 256)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The preceding passage suggests an elaboration of Leibniz&#x2019;s thesis of the dominant monad and of Whitehead&#x2019;s &#x201C;organism of organisms&#x201D; concept.</p>
<p>Lossky, however, denied that his view was a form of panpsychism, which he defined as making an identification between mental and physical processes. Mental and physical events are not identical but are related via a common basis in spirit. The net result, however, clearly fits the broader definition of panpsychism: &#x201C;Since all matter is active and purposive in character, so that it is capable of progressing to higher levels of being, it must be recognized that there is no lifeless matter. &#x2026; Matter is living because the basis of it is spirit.&#x201D; (1917/1928: 171)</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In 1918, Leonard Troland, a professor of psychology at Harvard University, argued for an analytical form of panpsychism that he called &#x201C;paraphysical monism.&#x201D; Following Clifford&#x2019;s mind-stuff theory, Troland claimed that the psychic realm has elementary atomic particles that are counterparts of the physical atoms. At the time, physics recognized only two elementary particles, protons and electrons; thus he argued that there must exist &#x201C;at most only two kinds of psychical atoms&#x201D;: &#x201C;para-electrons&#x201D; and &#x201C;para-protons.&#x201D; All conceivable mental states and feelings, then, would be seen as combinations of these two psychical atoms.</p>
<p>Since physical atoms know only two forces, attraction and repulsion, Troland claimed by analogy that the psychical atoms feel only the corresponding psychical qualities, &#x201C;pleasantness&#x201D; and &#x201C;unpleasantness&#x201D;&#x2014;yet another implicit reference to Empedocles&#x2019; Love and Strife. Evolution in the physical world tends toward greater cohesion and integration, and therefore the parallel psychical realm tends toward ever-greater pleasantness or happiness in an objective sense of the word. He called this the &#x201C;psychical law of hedonic selection&#x201D; (1918: 58).</p>
<p>Troland revised and developed his thesis in a 1922 article, titled &#x201C;Psychophysics as the Key to the Mysteries of Physics and of Metaphysics,&#x201D; in which he offers an early insight into the philosophical importance of relativity theory: that it implies active participation by the observer: &#x201C;all three of the fundamental dimensions of physics [space, time, mass] are conditional for their objective significance upon the conditions of observation&#x201D; (145).<a id="FN9a"/><a href="#FN9"><sup>9</sup></a> Troland then notes that the parallelism between physics and the mental realm implies the existence of a certain regularity or law-like behavior between them&#x2014;&#x201C;psycho-physical bridging laws.&#x201D; He was one of few philosophers to argue that &#x201C;consciousness is at least in part representable as a mathematical function of certain aspects of organic structure and activity&#x201D; (148). This led him to conclude that a form of the identity theory must be true&#x2014;that &#x201C;there exists a point-to-point correspondence between the constitution of immediate experience and that of the cortical activity&#x201D; (150). As a consequence, &#x201C;we are required to treat mind as if it were a substance and to identify it with the reality of matter&#x201D; (152). He called this new, revised view &#x201C;psychical monism.&#x201D; He claimed that it had originated with Fechner in the mid 1800s, but he also cited Clifford, Prince, Strong, and Paulsen as advocates. In spite of these panpsychic references, Troland doesn&#x2019;t make it clear that psychical monism is necessarily panpsychism until the end of the article. He notes that psychical activity must be associated not only with the brain as a whole but with each level of structure, from individual neuron down to atom: &#x201C;For every neuron in the nervous system and for every atom in each neuron there must be a real psychical fact which is related to my consciousness.&#x201D; (156) Thus, each person&#x2019;s individual field of consciousness must be &#x201C;considered the focus of a vast psychical nervous system &#x2026; made not of protons and electrons but of atoms of sentiency.&#x201D; This is a straightforward application of the mind-stuff theory.</p>
<p>But, Troland continues, &#x201C;you cannot stop here,&#x201D; because the continuity of physical nature compels us to envision a psychical universe &#x201C;which corresponds point-for-point &#x2026; with all the constituents of my organism and of my environment; indeed, with the totality of the physical universe&#x201D; (157). He refers to this as &#x201C;the panpsychic extension of consciousness&#x201D; to all physical reality. Furthermore, he argues, this view, far from being inconsequential, suggests a new method of metaphysical research:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This new method &#x2026; consists simply in determining carefully the laws which link the factors of human consciousness with those of brain function and then generalizing these laws &#x2026; to any physical structure or process whatever. The possibility of doing this rests upon the continuity of nature and upon the belief that human consciousness is sufficiently complex to exemplify all of the elementary psycho-physical relationships. (161)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">According to Troland, panpsychic &#x201C;psychical monism&#x201D; has great merit and &#x201C;should be expected &#x2026; to take the philosophical world by storm&#x201D; (153). That it has not done so is due, he says, to the &#x201C;habitually fuzzy methods of thinking&#x201D; of professional philosophers and psychologists.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In 1925, the fourth major pragmatist, John Dewey (1859&#x2013;1952), published his most significant philosophical work, <i>Experience and Nature</i>. In examining the connection between body and mind, Dewey comments that medieval views of causality led to stark contrasts between the two; as a result, &#x201C;there were no intermediates to shade gradually the black of body into the white of spirit&#x201D; (1925: 251). He then compares the physical bases of organic and non-organic things, concluding that, when properly understood, both types of objects share in comparable &#x201C;qualities of interaction.&#x201D; This continuity between organic and inorganic is the basis for his quasi-panpsychism.</p>
<p>Dewey explains that any living organism exhibits certain basic qualities that we typically associate with life: needs, efforts, and satisfactions. But these processes are not unique to life. He proceeds to define each of those qualities more closely: A need is a &#x201C;condition of tensional distribution of energies&#x201D; wherein a body is placed in an &#x201C;unstable equilibrium,&#x201D; efforts are movements or changes that &#x201C;modify environing bodies&#x201D; in such a way that equilibrium is restored, and satisfaction is the actual restoration of that equilibrium (253). The need-effort-satisfaction process is a &#x201C;concrete state of events&#x201D; that is common to all things, including plants:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]here is nothing which marks off the plant from the physico-chemical activity of inanimate bodies. The latter also are subject to conditions of disturbed inner equilibrium, which lead to activity in relation to surrounding things, and which terminate after a cycle of changes &#x2026; .</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">There is, of course, a difference between a plant and something like an iron molecule, and the difference &#x201C;lies in the <i>way</i> in which physico-chemical energies are interconnected and operate, whence different <i>consequences</i> mark inanimate and animate activity respectively&#x201D; (254). The emphasis on consequences again displays Dewey&#x2019;s pragmatist orientation. A plant, he claims, actively seeks to maintain its original structure. An iron molecule, on the other hand, &#x201C;shows no bias in favor of remaining simple iron; it had just as soon, so to speak, become iron-oxide.&#x201D; Yet, of course, an iron atom retains its structure even when bound with oxygen atoms in the form of rust. The interaction with oxygen becomes dominant, and thereafter the combined structure that we call rust is what acts differently than pure iron.</p>
<p>Dewey doesn&#x2019;t attribute mind or psyche to iron molecules. These are qualities of the specially organized forms that we call &#x201C;life.&#x201D; And yet something like sensitivity may apply to iron, in that it has the power of selection in its interaction with the environment. Iron reacts only with oxygen (under normal circumstances), and thus discriminates in favor of it. &#x201C;Discrimination,&#x201D; Dewey adds (256), &#x201C;is the essence of sensitivity.&#x201D;</p>
<p>The critical issue then is the continuity between humanity and nature, and once again a Continuity argument tends toward panpsychism. In his 1940 article &#x201C;Time and Individuality,&#x201D; Dewey elaborates this idea from the perspective of temporality. Adopting something of a process view, he observes that time-embeddedness is central to the meaning of the human: &#x201C;Temporal seriality is the very essence &#x2026; of the human individual.&#x201D; (1940/1988: 102) Our life-history and progressive interactions with the world are the defining characteristics of our existence as individuals. Furthermore, science reveals that &#x201C;temporal quality and historical career are a mark of everything&#x201D; (104), from human beings to atomic particles. This, therefore, implies a kind of individuated personality in all things, including human individuals and non-human &#x201C;physical individuals.&#x201D; Such a viewpoint, Dewey argues, &#x201C;does not mean that physical and human individuals are identical, nor that the things which appear to us to be nonliving have the distinguishing characteristics of organisms. The difference between the inanimate and the animate is not so easily wiped out. But it does show that there is no fixed gap between them.&#x201D; (108)</p>
<p>Dewey sought to avoid supernaturalism, and in a unified, naturalistic universe a compelling case can be made for attributing mind-like or person-like qualities to all things. Putting it concisely, Hartshorne (1937: 40) says of his view that &#x201C;if man is natural, then nature is manlike.&#x201D; For Hartshorne, such continuity logically and necessarily implies panpsychism: &#x201C;Consistently carried out, [Dewey&#x2019;s] attitude here must, if I am not deceived, carry him all the way to a radical panpsychism, according to which all process has a psychic character.&#x201D; (40&#x2013;41) And yet Dewey himself was apparently unwilling to embrace this logical conclusion. He has been justly criticized for his half-hearted stance. Rorty (1995: 1), for example, acknowledges that &#x201C;[a] sort of panpsychism &#x2026; loomed large in &#x2026; Dewey&#x2019;s mind.&#x201D; He proceeds to construct a &#x201C;hypothetical Dewey&#x201D; who was &#x201C;a naturalist without being a panpsychist,&#x201D; the point being &#x201C;to separate &#x2026; what I think is dead in Dewey&#x2019;s thought&#x201D; (3).<a id="FN10a"/><a href="#FN10"><sup>10</sup></a> Of course, it is not the panpsychism itself that is dead, but rather, perhaps, Dewey&#x2019;s formulation of it.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Panpsychist ideas continued to draw attention throughout the 1920s. In <i>Mind and Its Place in Nature</i> (1925), the philosopher Durant Drake (1878&#x2013;1933) advocated another mind-stuff form of panpsychism. He argued that the basic building blocks of matter&#x2014;energy, force, electricity&#x2014;must be understood as having noetic components: &#x201C;these units of matter are psychic units&#x201D; (94). Such an understanding supplements rather than challenges the scientific view. These psychic units, furthermore, are neither conscious nor aware, as those qualities are reserved for highly evolved organisms. Thus, he writes, &#x201C;it would be wrong to use &#x2018;mental&#x2019; or &#x2018;feeling&#x2019; to denote the stuff of which things are made&#x201D; (98). Likewise with the notions of thought, sensation, emotion, and will. Such &#x201C;poetic and fanciful&#x201D; anthropomorphization would be an inaccurate portrayal.</p>
<p>Yet Drake sees the stuff of reality as intimately psychic. &#x201C;The term &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019;,&#x201D; he writes,</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">may properly be applied to our theory; but we must understand that it is only mind-<i>stuff</i> that is universal, not mind itself. &#x2026; The whole world is indeed, in a sense, alive. &#x2026; It is an enormously intricate pattern of psychic units, continually changing their interrelations. (99)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Drake&#x2019;s main argument is based on continuity. Humans are made of the same materials as all things. Hence, &#x201C;we are therefore free to believe that the stuff that is deployed in this or that order throughout the universe is the same sort of stuff that composes us, sentient being that we are.&#x201D; Such a worldview has no effect on science, but despite this it has a number of virtues:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">It does assert our thoroughgoing kinship with all the rest of the natural world. It puts an end to the need of introducing such magical entities as &#x201C;souls&#x201D; or &#x201C;entelechies,&#x201D; and &#x2026; explains consciousness in natural terms. It enables us to explain the origin of minds [and] to see <i>how</i> matter affects mind, and how mind affects matter. (100&#x2013;101)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Panpsychism, for Drake, solves important philosophical problems and offers an integrative worldview that places humans and the human mind in a larger natural order.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Philosophers of science were becoming aware of panpsychist theories in the late 1920s, and a long period of scientific interest in the topic was beginning (as I explain in the following chapter). For example, the fields of psychiatry and psychoanalysis were developing and branching away from philosophy, and they too brought certain panpsychist concepts into their realm of discussion. The psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reich, following Hartmann, advanced ideas connecting the unconscious with all of nature and thus leading to a putative resolution of the mind-body problem.<a id="FN11a"/><a href="#FN11"><sup>11</sup></a> According to Brown (1959: 315), the psychologist Sandor Ferenczi believed that a movement toward a &#x201C;sophisticated&#x201D; form of animism was useful in psychoanalysis:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Ferenczi saw psychoanalysis as marking a significant step forward in general scientific methodology, a step which he defined as &#x201C;a return to a certain extent to the methods of ancient animistic science&#x201D; and &#x201C;the reestablishment of an animism no longer anthropocentric.&#x201D;</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">According to Ferenczi (1926/1950: 256), Sigmund Freud himself had supported such a move:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Naive animism transferred human psychic life <i>en bloc</i>, without analysis, on to natural objects. [Freudian] psycho-analysis, however, dissected human psychic activity, pursued it to the limit where psychic and physical come in contact &#x2026; and thus freed psychology from anthropocentrism.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The result was a &#x201C;purified animism&#x201D; that Freud employed to the benefit of his psychoanalytic technique.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S4"/>7.4&#x2003;<a id="d2e551"/>Whitehead and the Emergence of Process Philosophy</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The best-known and most controversial panpsychist of the twentieth century was Alfred North Whitehead (1861&#x2013;1947). The nominal founder of process philosophy, Whitehead took the insights of Heraclitus, Bergson, James, and Russell and combined them with the revelations of the so-called new physics of the day to create an intricate and complex philosophical system. Process philosophy saw time as a fundamental ontological entity, something deeply implicated in the nature of being. Given that all matter is dynamic, and that space is more properly viewed as space-time, there is clearly a sense in which all things can be seen as &#x201C;events&#x201D;&#x2014;that is, occurrences in space and time. On this view, the event is the fundamental reality of the world.</p>
<p>The importance of Whitehead&#x2019;s system and its continuing role in panpsychist thought demand a relatively detailed discussion of his ideas.</p>
<p>The third phase of Whitehead&#x2019;s philosophical career&#x2014;the so-called metaphysical phase&#x2014;began in 1924, when at age 63 he accepted a professorship in philosophy at Harvard. In the next year he published the first of a number of works that included either intimations or outright affirmations of panpsychism. His panpsychist theory of mind is relatively well known and has been widely discussed, most recently by Griffin (1998), De Quincey (2002), and Clarke (2003).</p>
<p>As the focal point of Whitehead&#x2019;s metaphysical system, events&#x2014;also called &#x201C;occasions&#x201D; or &#x201C;actual occasions&#x201D;&#x2014;constitute the substance of the world and hence are truly fundamental. They are the sole components of reality in a creative cosmos. Occasions are &#x201C;the final real things of which the world is made up. There is no going behind actual [occasions] to find anything more real.&#x201D; (1929/1978: 18) They constitute everything from God down to &#x201C;the most trivial puff of existence in far-off empty space.&#x201D; Though they differ greatly in intensity, importance, and functionality, all occasions are at root fundamentally alike. Most important for present purposes, these transitory actual occasions all embody an aspect of mind, namely as &#x201C;experience&#x201D;: &#x201C;these actual entities are drops of experience, complex and interdependent.&#x201D; If all real things are occasions, and all occasions are &#x201C;drops of experience,&#x201D; then all things contain an experiential, and hence mental, quality.</p>
<p>Panpsychism is thus at the core of Whitehead&#x2019;s worldview, and even more so of his conception of mind. Human beings, as natural entities, experience a particularly high-grade sort of mind&#x2014;one that includes consciousness, complex feelings, and analytic abilities. Our qualities of mind, which are unique to us, do not apply to other beings. In no sense would Whitehead attribute complex, human-like mental qualities to all things. But this fundamental mode of existence&#x2014;experientiality, subjectivity&#x2014;is, he says, built into the very fabric of the universe. Experience is inseparable from existence.</p>
<p>The first major book of Whitehead&#x2019;s metaphysical phase was <i>Science and the Modern World</i> (1925). Nominally a history of science, it also articulates a new conception of science based roughly on quantum wave theory. Quantum particles, as we know, can assume only discrete energy states. Energy is not infinitely divisible, but exists as multiples of certain minimal quanta, or quantum units. That may have been the idea that had led James to speculate that experience too, and even time itself, was likewise quantized into discrete units. Whitehead seems to have adopted the idea and developed it further. In addition, quantum particles are defined by temporally evolving probability functions, and hence must be viewed dynamically. Matter is not a substance, it is a <i>process</i>. &#x201C;Nature is a structure of evolving processes. The reality is the process.&#x201D; (Whitehead 1925/1967: 72) He calls this approach the &#x201C;new doctrine of organism&#x201D; (36), offering it as a replacement for conventional materialism.</p>
<p>Processes are naturally defined in terms of events. Every event has a past, a set of contemporaries, and a future; thus each event has &#x201C;anticipation&#x201D;&#x2014;a feeling or sense for its place in the sequence of the universe. This constitutes a kind of self-knowledge, not unlike the self-knowledge that each person has. We have a fundamental knowledge of our own &#x201C;total bodily event&#x201D;&#x2014;of ourselves as whole organisms. And this knowledge is the model on which we must view all events:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I generalize by the use of the principle that this total bodily event is on the same level as all other events, except for an unusual complexity and stability of inherent pattern. The strength of the theory of mechanistic materialism has been the demand that no arbitrary breaks be introduced into nature. &#x2026; I accept this principle. But if you start from the immediate facts of our psychological experience, as surely an empiricist should begin, you are at once led to the organic conception of nature &#x2026; . (73)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">And in &#x201C;organic&#x201D; Whitehead intends to include &#x201C;the organic unities of electrons, protons, molecules, and living bodies.&#x201D; This is his first step toward panpsychism.</p>
<p>On the one hand Whitehead finds it &#x201C;difficult to believe that the experienced world is an attribute of our own personality&#x201D; (90), as subjectivism would have it; on the other hand, it is clear to him that mind or mentality is somehow intimately involved in the substance of reality. He explains that the more appropriate view of a provisional realism&#x2014;or, following Peirce, objective idealism&#x2014;is a combination of the other two views: &#x201C;[T]he world disclosed in sense-perception is a common world, transcending the individual recipient. &#x2026; [But also], cognitive mentality is in some way inextricably concerned in every detail.&#x201D; This passage may be read more as a description than as an endorsement, but clearly Whitehead favors the approach it sets forth.</p>
<p>Later in the book he elaborates further: &#x201C;A natural event is only an abstraction from a complete actual occasion.&#x201D; (170) More to the point, &#x201C;A complete occasion includes that which in cognitive experience takes the form of memory, anticipation, imagination, and thought.&#x201D; Just as every event can anticipate, so can every event remember, imagine, and even &#x201C;think&#x201D; to some degree. These qualities seem to belong to all events, and to characterize their mentality, as it were. Using his infamously obscure terminology, Whitehead describes the situation as follows:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In each case there is one finite eternal object prehended within the occasion as the vertex of a finite hierarchy. This breaking off from an actual illimitability is what in any occasion marks off that which is termed mental from that which belongs to the physical event to which the mental functioning is referred. (171)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Hence it seems that, at a minimum, every occasion&#x2014;that is, every event whatsoever&#x2014;possesses both a mental and a physical aspect or dimension. This foreshadows his later assignment of mental and physical &#x201C;poles&#x201D; to all events.</p>
<p>A closing indication of panpsychist thinking comes in Whitehead&#x2019;s declaration that every occasion possesses experientiality: &#x201C;Consider an occasion <i>a</i> &#x2026; . What <i>a</i> is in itself, is that it is a unit of realized experience.&#x201D; (174) At the very least, all this points to an advocacy of panexperientialism, which by most accounts is a form of panpsychism.</p>
<p>The dual mental-physical nature of occasions or events returns more explicitly in Whitehead&#x2019;s 1926 book <i>Religion in the Making</i>. He describes humans and animals as embodying a sequence of occasions obviously both mental and material; these proceed together &#x201C;in the very closest connection&#x201D; (1926a: 106). But &#x201C;in the case of a bit of inorganic matter, any associate route of mentality seems to be negligible&#x201D;&#x2014;and by &#x2018;negligible&#x2019; he means approaching, but not equal to, zero. Thus even something as small as an electron follows both mental and physical routes, even if the former are vastly outweighed by the latter. This point is emphasized a few pages later: &#x201C;[T]he most complete concrete fact is dipolar, physical and mental. But &#x2026; the proportion of importance, as shared between the two poles, may vary from negligibility to dominance of either pole.&#x201D; (114) There is some latent ambiguity here, because in principle it is possible that not all occasions (&#x201C;facts&#x201D;) are &#x201C;complete&#x201D; and thus not every occasion would necessarily have a mental pole. But in context it is reasonably clear that all occasions are dipolar in nature, and that panpsychism is the result.</p>
<p>Any remaining ambiguity is erased with Whitehead&#x2019;s short essay &#x201C;Time,&#x201D; also published in 1926.<a id="FN12a"/><a href="#FN12"><sup>12</sup></a> In it he writes that &#x201C;each occasion is dipolar, and that one pole is the physical occasion and the other pole is the mental occasion&#x201D; (303). He further explains that there is a relationship between the two poles: &#x201C;the mental occasion supersedes the physical occasion.&#x201D; The suggestion here is that an occasion begins with a physical unification of past occasions, which are then prehended, or unified, into a mental experience. This moment of experience then passes away and the occasion becomes &#x201C;completed,&#x201D; ready to serve as the physical basis for future occasions. &#x201C;With &#x2018;Time&#x2019;,&#x201D; Ford writes (1995: 28), &#x201C;panpsychism is clearly affirmed in the sense that every actuality has mentality.&#x201D;</p>
<p>By the time of his central work, <i>Process and Reality</i>, Whitehead is fully comfortable in referring to all occasions, in Jamesian fashion, as &#x201C;drops of experience.&#x201D; &#x201C;Each actual entity,&#x201D; he writes, &#x201C;is a throb of experience including the actual world within its scope.&#x201D; (1929/1978: 190) Discussing the organic or &#x201C;social&#x201D; nature of all actual entities, he comments:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[The] development of mentality is characteristic of the actual occasions which make up the structured societies which we know as &#x201C;material bodies.&#x201D; &#x2026; These material bodies belong to the lowest grade of structured societies which are obvious to our gross apprehensions. They comprise societies of various types of complexity&#x2014;crystals, rocks, planets, and suns. (101&#x2013;102)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Physical causality between material bodies is expressed in terms of feelings: &#x201C;A simple physical feeling is an act of causation. &#x2026; [A]ll our physical relationships are made up of such simple physical feelings, as their atomic bricks.&#x201D; (236&#x2013;237) Later Whitehead adds: &#x201C;The physical theory of the structural flow of energy has to do with the transmission of simple physical feelings from individual actuality to individual actuality.&#x201D; (254) And elsewhere in <i>Process and Reality</i> we find further elaboration of the dipolar nature of actual entities (239), and of the notion of value as an expression of the subjectivity of an occasion (240&#x2013;241, 248). Thus we see a multi-level reconfirmation of panpsychism, with mind and subjectivity present in all events.</p>
<p><i>Adventures of Ideas</i> (1933) continues Whitehead&#x2019;s examination of persistence, a subject he had explored in great detail in <i>Process and Reality</i>. If the ultimate reality is the occasion of experience, and if that occasion somehow exists outside the scope of time, how do we account for such durable objects as molecules, human bodies, rocks, planets, and galaxies? Persistent objects are, on Whitehead&#x2019;s view, collections or &#x201C;societies&#x201D; of occasions that somehow share a close family relationship. Societies are thus the only material things that endure. &#x201C;A society must exhibit the peculiar quality of endurance. The real actual things that endure are all societies. They are not actual occasions.&#x201D; (1933/1967: 204)</p>
<p>Societies, furthermore, are composed of individuals who are themselves societies. We thus arrive a picture of the world in which things are seen as nested hierarchies of social orders, from lowest to highest: &#x201C;The Universe achieves its values by reason of its coordination into societies of societies, and in societies of societies of societies.&#x201D; (206) Certain of these enduring societies&#x2014;such as human beings&#x2014;attain a high-grade form. Others&#x2014;among them cells, atoms, and electrons&#x2014;achieve only very low-grade forms of mentality. Humans are therefore societies of mental subjects of varying degrees of complexity: &#x201C;in a man, the living body is permeated by living societies of low-grade occasions so far as mentality is concerned&#x201D; (208). All enduring things are constructed on the same general plan.</p>
<p>Thus, it is a mistake to posit an absolute distinction between minded and unminded entities on the basis of empirical observation. The distinction is illusory. &#x201C;Nature suggests for our observation gaps, and then as it were withdraws them upon challenge.&#x201D; Whitehead makes this point explicitly in the late work <i>Modes of Thought</i>. The chapter &#x201C;Nature Alive&#x201D; includes this comment:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]his sharp division between mentality and nature has no ground in our fundamental observation. &#x2026; I conclude that we should conceive mental operations as among the factors which make up the constitution of nature. (1938: 156)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The social or organismic structure of material reality thus accounts for the appearance of things around us, but Whitehead never lets us forget that the experiential occasions themselves are at the foundation of things: &#x201C;The actualities of the Universe are processes of experience, each process an individual fact. The whole Universe is the advancing assemblage of these processes.&#x201D; (1933:1967: 197)</p>
<p>A final confirmation of Whitehead&#x2019;s generally panpsychist or pan-experientialist outlook comes from a late speech, published as &#x201C;Immortality,&#x201D; in which he contrasts the universe as a place of great variety and differentiation (&#x201C;World of Activity&#x201D;) with the underlying metaphysical unity of things at the level of process (&#x201C;World of Value&#x201D;). Things appear to be Many, but philosophically we know that they are ultimately One. Insofar as things are unified, they are all manifestations of occasions of experience, each an expression of intrinsic value. Insofar as things are manifold, they appear to separate into two groupings: the purely physical and the physical/mental. But again, this is a false distinction. &#x201C;[T]here is no need to postulate two essentially different types of Active Entities, namely, the purely material entities and the entities alive with various modes of experiencing. The latter type is sufficient to account of the characteristics of that World.&#x201D; (Whitehead 1941: 695) Experience, then, is the ultimate reality of existence.</p>
<p>Whitehead&#x2019;s process panpsychism has proved exceptionally fruitful. Russell and Hartshorne are among his more notable followers, but many others have found inspiration there. Even today it is one of the most active lines of metaphysical research, and is a direct beneficiary of more analytic defenses of panpsychism such as that offered by Strawson (2009). In one form or another, process thinking has been influential for more than 2,000 years; no doubt it has another millennium or two to go.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S5"/>7.5&#x2003;<a id="d2e678"/>Russell</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Whitehead&#x2019;s student and colleague Bertrand Russell (1872&#x2013;1970), in the latter part of his career, held to a neutral monist process view in which events were the primary reality, comprising both mind and matter. In that sense he continued the line of thinking of Bergson and Whitehead. Russell&#x2019;s neutral monism was unique, however, in that he proposed that mind and matter each resulted from a set of causal laws; matter from physical laws of science, mind from &#x201C;mnemic&#x201D; laws that were not yet understood.<a id="FN13a"/><a href="#FN13"><sup>13</sup></a> The relationship between these two sets of laws (if there was one) was not clear.</p>
<p>The connection between neutral monism and panpsychism is relevant and illuminating. If, for example, all things are composed of events, then an event is capable of giving rise to mind as well as matter. Therefore, either an event undergoes some kind of bifurcation that steers it in one of two fundamentally different paths, resulting in two fundamentally different modes of existence, or an event retains both a mind-like and a matter-like aspect. The former case presents a difficult ontological problem that Russell attempted to resolve with his two classes of causal laws. The latter is the more logically coherent alternative; this seems to have been the choice of Bergson and Whitehead, and even Russell appears to have endorsed it at times. It is this alternative that urges one toward panpsychism.</p>
<p>Passages suggestive of panpsychism appear early in Russell&#x2019;s work. One of the first can be found in the 1915 article &#x201C;The Ultimate Constituents of Matter.&#x201D; Although the article preceded his neutral monist phase, in it Russell offered up an alternative theory of matter in which sense data compose the ultimate reality of things; this thesis is a clear extension of Mach&#x2019;s idea that reality consists of sensations. As with Mach, the concept of sense-data seems to imply a psychological or mental aspect to reality, though at the time Russell apparently denied this interpretation.</p>
<p>Into the 1920s, and upon his acceptance of neutral monism, Russell argued that sensations belonged equally to mind and matter. In <i>The Analysis of Mind</i> he wrote: &#x201C;I should admit this [neutral monist] view as regards sensations: what is heard or seen belongs equally to psychology and to physics. &#x2026; Sensations are subject to both kinds of [causal] laws, and are therefore truly &#x2018;neutral.&#x2019;&#x201D; (1921: 25&#x2013;26) Sensation, then, is apparently part of the stuff of reality. This is not necessarily panpsychism, or even pansensism. Later in the book, however, Russell puts forth a kind of qualified pansensist position:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">We may say generally that an object whether animate or inanimate, is &#x201C;sensitive&#x201D; to a certain feature of the environment if it behaves differently according to the presence or absence of that feature. Thus iron is sensitive to anything magnetic. (260)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">But he is quick to add that this form of sensitivity doesn&#x2019;t even constitute knowledge, let alone intelligence. As such, it is a rather trivial form of pansensism&#x2014;yet one that he apparently held for much of his life. He reiterated it nearly 20 years later: &#x201C;Perceptive awareness is a species of &#x2018;sensitivity,&#x2019; which is not confined to living organisms, but is also displayed by scientific instruments, and to some degree by everything.&#x201D; (1940/1949: 13)</p>
<p>In <i>The Analysis of Matter</i> (1927a) Russell reveals his process orientation, positing events as the neutral, ultimate elements of reality. He continues to narrow the mind-matter gap, characterizing matter as &#x201C;less material, and mind less mental, than is commonly supposed&#x201D; (7). As a consequence, &#x201C;physics must be interpreted in a way which tends towards idealism, and perception in a way which tends towards materialism.&#x201D; Both matter and mind are &#x201C;logical structures&#x201D; composed of events. Significantly, these events are in themselves to be seen, as in Russell&#x2019;s earlier works, as sense data or &#x201C;percepts&#x201D;: &#x201C;As to what the events are that compose the physical world, they are, in the first place, percepts, and then [secondarily] whatever can be inferred from percepts.&#x201D; (386) &#x201C;Mental events,&#x201D; he adds, &#x201C;are part of that stuff [of the world], and &#x2026; the rest of the stuff resembles them more than it resembles traditional billiard-balls.&#x201D; (388) He concludes that &#x201C;from the standpoint of philosophy, the distinction between physical and mental is superficial and unreal&#x201D; (402). Again, this is highly suggestive but less than definitive.</p>
<p>Russell clearly rejected the mechanistic model of reality, but it is uncertain whether a form of panpsychism was implicated in the reason. He was, however, repeatedly willing to blur the distinction between mind and matter. In <i>An Outline of Philosophy</i> (1927b) he addresses that distinction directly, again in a way suggestive of panpsychism: &#x201C;My own feeling is that there is not a sharp line, but a difference of degree [between mind and matter]; an oyster is less mental than a man, but not wholly un-mental.&#x201D; (209) One reason why we cannot draw a line, he says, is that an essential aspect of mind is memory, and a memory of sorts is displayed even by inanimate objects: &#x201C;[W]e cannot, on this ground [of memory], erect an absolute barrier between mind and matter. &#x2026; Inanimate matter, to some slight extent, shows analogous behavior.&#x201D; (306) In the summary at the end of the book, he adds this:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The events that happen in our minds are part of the course of nature, and we do not know that the events which happen elsewhere are of a totally different kind. The physical world &#x2026; is perhaps less rigidly determined by causal laws than it was thought to be; one might, more or less fancifully, attribute even to the atom a kind of limited free will. (311)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Recalling the ancient Epicurean idea, this modern reference to an atomic free will is based on the newly discovered phenomenon of quantum indeterminacy. Notably, it even finds confirmation in recent physics; see Conway and Kochen 2006, 2009.<a id="FN14a"/><a href="#FN14"><sup>14</sup></a></p>
<p>Perhaps Russell&#x2019;s clearest articulation of panpsychism came near the end of his writing career, in the 1956 book <i>Portraits from Memory</i>. He asks a simple question: &#x201C;What is the difference between things that happen to sentient beings and things that happen to lifeless matter?&#x201D; (152) The common view is that inanimate things undergo many stimuli and reactions, but experience&#x2014;as a mental property&#x2014;is not one of them. Recalling his idea from <i>Outline of Philosophy</i>, he notes that the chief characteristic of experience is &#x201C;the influence of past occurrences on present reactions,&#x201D; that is, memory. Memory is &#x201C;the most essential characteristic of mind,&#x201D; and &#x201C;using this word [memory] in its broadest sense to include every influence of past experience on present reactions&#x201D; (153&#x2013;154). As before, Russell points out that such a notion of memory must apply, properly speaking, to all physical objects and systems. He is explicit:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This [memory] also can be illustrated in a lesser degree by the behavior of inorganic matter. A watercourse which at most times is dry gradually wears a channel down a gully at the times when it flows, and subsequent rains follow [a similar] course. &#x2026; You may say, if you like, that the river bed &#x201C;remembers&#x201D; previous occasions when it experienced cooling streams. &#x2026; You would say [this] was a flight of fancy because you are of the opinion that rivers and river beds do not &#x201C;think.&#x201D; But if thinking consists of certain modifications of behavior owing to former occurrences, then we shall have to say that the river bed thinks, though its thinking is somewhat rudimentary. (155)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This is as clear a statement as can be found in his body of writings. Yet his reticence about fully endorsing such a view is obvious. Later in the book he tends toward agnosticism with respect to any intrinsic mental nature in physical objects, stating that &#x201C;we cannot say either that the physical world outside our heads is different from the mental world or that it is not&#x201D; (164).<a id="FN15a"/><a href="#FN15"><sup>15</sup></a></p>
<p>Panpsychist readings of Russell are traditionally rare, though less so in recent years. Hartshorne (1937) thinks he is virtually there. Popper (1977) locates him very close to a Leibnizian panpsychism. Chalmers (1996) has placed him in the panpsychist camp; referring to <i>The Analysis of Matter</i> (without quotation), he writes: &#x201C;Perhaps, as Russell suggested, at least some of the intrinsic properties of the physical are themselves a variety of phenomenal property [i.e. of sense-data]? The idea sounds wild at first, but on reflection it becomes less so.&#x201D; (154) And we know the reason it is wild: &#x201C;There is of course the threat of panpsychism.&#x201D; Chalmers raises the issue because he is sympathetic to the view, as I explain in a later chapter.</p>
<p>Recently there has been focused interest in so-called Russellian monism, much of which touches on the question of panpsychism in Russell himself. <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i>, an anthology edited by Alter and Nagasawa and published in 2015, includes numerous references to the topic. Galen Strawson (2015a: 203) notes that Russell is &#x201C;open to panpsychism,&#x201D; if not already there. Leopold Stubenberg, on the other hand, argues that &#x201C;Russell would want to resist his being classified as a panpsychist&#x201D; (2015: 75) because the neutral elements of his neutral monism are conceivably non-mental. Thus Stubenberg says that, despite the arguments of some recent Russellian monists, it is &#x201C;inaccurate&#x201D; to &#x201C;view Russell as a panpsychist&#x201D; (82). Certainly Russell was reluctant to fully endorse the view, but on the basis of the passages quoted above it is clear that he was strongly oriented in that direction and deeply sympathetic to it.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S6"/>7.6&#x2003;<a id="d2e768"/>Phenomenology</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Phenomenology, as a loosely bound school of philosophical concepts that defies concise definition, is generally centered on the notion of mind and consciousness as a primary aspect of existence. Its development in the work of Edmund Husserl, Martin Heidegger, and Maurice Merleau-Ponty, and the related elaborations by Jean-Paul Sartre and Gabriel Marcel, seem to imply that mentality is a fundamental feature of the world, intimately bound up with any meaningful conception of being. This ontological essentialism has prompted some to suggest a connection with panpsychism. Hartshorne comments as follows&#x2014;though without supplying clear evidence:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[Heidegger holds] that a cautiously positive form of anthropomorphism [i.e. panpsychism]&#x2014;that which attributes to other creatures neither the duplication, nor the total absence, but lesser degrees and more primitive forms, of those properties exhibited in high degree, and more refined or complex forms, of those in us&#x2014;is the only rational initial hypothesis for us to form. (1979: 52)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Abram (1996) also drew inspiration for his neo-animism from the work of Husserl and Merleau-Ponty. He depicts the phenomenological worldview as one in which &#x201C;the sensible world &#x2026; is described as active, animate, and, in some curious manner, alive&#x201D; (55). But the passages Abram cites are obscure and indirect, with no clear correlation to any recognizable form of panpsychism. The statement by Hartshorne quoted above included a footnote reference to two vague passages in Heidegger, but, as with much of Heidegger&#x2019;s writing, neither is conclusive.</p>
<p>Generally speaking, the obscurity of most phenomenological writing makes it difficult to discern any clear connection to panpsychism. There are, however, certain ideas that, under the appropriate interpretation, are suggestive of it. For example, Heidegger&#x2019;s <i>Being and Time</i> (1927) attempts an analysis of being through the characteristics of <i>Dasein</i> (literally &#x201C;being-there&#x201D;). <i>Dasein</i> is typically taken as pertaining to the human essence, but is amenable to a broader interpretation of being or existence in general. Thus, Heidegger&#x2019;s conclusions about <i>Dasein</i> logically should pertain to all forms of being. The human &#x201C;taking-account-of&#x201D; and the relations such as &#x201C;for-the-sake-of&#x201D; and &#x201C;in-order-to&#x201D; seem to apply to all entities whatsoever, as Heidegger demonstrates no clear ontological distinction between humans and objects generally. Even simple physical encounters, such as a raindrop&#x2019;s hitting a leaf, can be seen as episodes of awareness or experience not unrelated to that of humans.</p>
<p>One study of Heidegger that suggests such a view is Graham Harman&#x2019;s <i>Tool-Being</i> (2002). Harman aims to extend Heidegger&#x2019;s insights, further than even Heidegger did, to reach their full logical conclusions. Harman sees the key to Heidegger&#x2019;s whole philosophical system in his analysis of tools. Heidegger related tools to human <i>Dasein</i>, but on Harman&#x2019;s view &#x201C;the tool-analysis does not rely in the least on any priority of the human standpoint&#x201D; (29). Any particular object may serve as a tool, and it stands in some relationship to every other object; using Heidegger&#x2019;s terminology, we may say that each entity exists &#x201C;for the sake of&#x201D; (<i>Um-willen</i>) any other thing that it encounters. In Harman&#x2019;s words, &#x201C;the structure known as the &#x2018;for-the-sake-of&#x2019; occurs even on the level of soulless matter&#x201D; (30). If so, the presumed particularity of human consciousness in our everyday encounters is swept away. The network of relationality that we are embedded in, the &#x201C;as-structure,&#x201D; is no longer the private domain of the human mind. &#x201C;The ontological status of sentient awareness has been radically altered: it no longer has the entire as-structure to itself, and therefore has lost its previous ontological distinction.&#x201D; (225) Harman adds that &#x201C;the as-structure of the human <i>Dasein</i> turns out to be just a special case of relationality in general. We ourselves are no more and no less perspectival than are rocks, paper, and scissors.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Yet Harman resists casting this interpretation in a panpsychist light. Discussing an example of a metal stove sitting on a frozen lake, he says: &#x201C;I see no reason to accept the animistic claim that such a stove &#x2026; &#x2018;perceives&#x2019; the lake in the usual sense.&#x201D; (223) He makes no explicit claim that his thesis of &#x201C;pan-relationality&#x201D; is any variant of panpsychism. Elsewhere he has stated that, even though he is &#x201C;not inherently opposed&#x201D; to panpsychism, he wants &#x201C;to be careful in not jumping from the claim that all objects are involved in relations to the much more far-ranging claim that all relations are psychic relations.&#x201D;<a id="FN16a"/><a href="#FN16"><sup>16</sup></a> Yet this raises the question of the precise nature of the relationship, if any, between &#x201C;psychic relations&#x201D; and relationality in general. And all this, of course, relates to Harman&#x2019;s own interpretation, not to Heidegger. According to Harman, &#x201C;there is no real panpsychist tendency in Heidegger.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Likewise, Merleau-Ponty&#x2019;s <i>Phenomenology of Perception</i> (1945) appears to articulate a sympathetic relationship between perceiver and perceived wherein each actively apprehends the other. Merleau-Ponty imputes a kind of animate quality to the sensory world: &#x201C;Hardness, softness, roughness and smoothness &#x2026; present themselves in our recollection &#x2026; as certain kinds of symbioses, certain ways the outside has of invading us.&#x201D; (1945/1962: 317) Elsewhere in the book (211) he describes this process as one of an active world taking possession of the body. But such references are rare, and are subject to various interpretations. Generally speaking, elements of panpsychism in phenomenology are faint at best. In Harman&#x2019;s opinion, &#x201C;it&#x2019;s safe to say that there is no panpsychist strain anywhere in the phenomenological movement.&#x201D;</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S7"/>7.7&#x2003;<a id="d2e830"/>Teilhard de Chardin</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">There was perhaps no more visionary and exuberant panpsychist than Pierre Teilhard de Chardin (1881&#x2013;1955). Teilhard&#x2014;geologist, paleontologist, Jesuit priest, and philosopher&#x2014;combined elements of Bergson&#x2019;s evolutionism and its transcendental ethos with a devout if radical interpretation of Christianity to produce a unique and visionary metaphysical system. The core of his thesis was an elaboration of an idea from Schiller and Lossky: the concept of &#x201C;complexity-consciousness.&#x201D; This involved the notion that, as matter evolves into increasingly complex forms, so too does the corresponding dimension of consciousness that is attributed to it. Consciousness equals complexity; simple elements of matter possess a low-grade consciousness, and the more complex forms, like the human, possess it in great degrees. In Teilhard&#x2019;s words (1959: 301): &#x201C;this particular involution &#x2018;of complexity&#x2019; is experimentally bound up with a correlative increase in interiorisation, that is to say in the psyche or consciousness.&#x201D;</p>
<p><i>The Phenomenon of Man</i>, Teilhard&#x2019;s masterpiece, was his first substantial work of philosophy. It was written over the course of several years and completed circa 1938 in the midst of a 20-year stay in China performing paleontological work. The book has many varied dimensions and implications, and panpsychism is only one aspect of Teilhard&#x2019;s comprehensive vision.</p>
<p>Early in <i>The Phenomenon of Man</i> Teilhard establishes his view that the realm of matter is driven by an evolutionary energy that carries it toward increasingly complex and intricate organization. This universal concept of energy presents itself in varying forms, including its different physical manifestations, but nonetheless is an energy that yields mind: &#x201C;All energy is psychic in nature.&#x201D; (1959: 64) Teilhard argues that the evolutionary process results in matter that possesses, at all levels of complexity, an interior that is inherently mental or psychical. Much like Spinoza, he writes that &#x201C;there is necessarily a <i>double aspect to</i> [matter&#x2019;s] <i>structure</i>,&#x201D; and that &#x201C;<i>co-extensive with their Without, there is a Within to things</i>&#x201D; (56). The process of evolution, in its most universal sense, is thus one of increasing articulation of mind and consciousness: &#x201C;We regard evolution as primarily psychical transformation.&#x201D; (167) The natural result is a panpsychic worldview: &#x201C;From the cell to the thinking animal, as from the atom to the cell, a single process (a psychical kindling or concentration) goes on without interruption and always in the same direction.&#x201D; (169) As he reiterates in the postscript,</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[W]e are logically forced to assume the existence in rudimentary form &#x2026; of some sort of psyche in every corpuscle, even in those (the mega-molecules and below) whose complexity is of such a low or modest order as to render it (the psyche) imperceptible. &#x2026; The universe is, both on the whole and at each of its points, in a continual tension of organic doubling-back upon itself, and thus of interiorization. (301&#x2013;302)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">For Teilhard the <i>becoming of mind</i> is a monumental, universal process of unending progress from dim and unarticulated mentality to ever-greater depth of intensity and interiorization. This is the leitmotif&#x2014;&#x201C;noogenesis,&#x201D; as he calls it&#x2014;that pervades his works.</p>
<p>In a 1941 essay titled &#x201C;The Atomism of Spirit,&#x201D; Teilhard again emphasizes the continuity of psychic evolution in all things, from atoms to <i>Homo sapiens</i>: &#x201C;[W]e do not immediately recognize in man the natural extension of the atom. Nevertheless &#x2026; it becomes clear that in each one of us the same movement [of interiorization] is being continued.&#x201D; (1970: 34) In a 1947 article, &#x201C;The Place of Technology,&#x201D; he notes that &#x201C;interiority, the rudiment of consciousness, exists everywhere; &#x2026; &#x2018;the within&#x2019; is a universal property of things&#x201D; (1970: 156). Three years later he argued that &#x201C;matter and Spirit [are] two states or two aspects of one and the same cosmic Stuff,&#x201D; and that Spirit is on the ascension while Matter is on the decline (1950/1979: 26&#x2013;27). And in one of his last pieces, &#x201C;The Reflection of Energy&#x201D; (1952), Teilhard discusses the universal complexification of energy with respect to the tendency of thermodynamic decay, or entropy. Evolution is driven by &#x201C;some <i>powerful magnetic force, psychic in nature</i>&#x201D; (1970: 334), and by this fact it overcomes entropic degradation.</p>
<p>Teilhard thus combined a kind of non-emergence argument with a panpsychist ontology based in first principles. For him, emergence of species and other forms of being was clearly possible, just as new and more complex forms of mind could emerge, but mind as an ontological category was present from the beginning of time. The evolutionary imperative of noogenesis was for him a central cosmological principle, and thus a fundamental metaphysical assumption.</p>
<p>Teilhard&#x2019;s philosophical legacy has been mixed. For some he has been immensely influential, but in an era dominated by materialistic, analytic, and secular philosophy he has typically been seen as too theological&#x2014;or, worse, too mystical. Theologians have tended to look skeptically at his fundamental endorsement of evolution and his radical conception of God. In this sense he was very much like his panpsychist contemporary Charles Hartshorne&#x2014;both men were radical theologian-philosophers who articulated visions too unconventional for either academia or religion.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S8"/>7.8&#x2003;<a id="d2e887"/>Hartshorne and the Problem of the Aggregate</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">After Whitehead, the preeminent process philosopher of the twentieth century was Charles Hartshorne (1897&#x2013;2000). A sort of counterculture figure in the world of philosophy, he was, to a significant degree, shunned by mainstream philosophers, both for his failure to embrace the analytic and linguistic tradition and for his open advocacy of panpsychism and theological philosophy. On the other hand, he was seen as too radical by conventional theologians, primarily because of his pantheistic process view of God. Though clearly in the vein of Whitehead&#x2019;s philosophy, Hartshorne&#x2019;s writing is in a sense its mirror image&#x2014;he wrote clearly and elegantly, avoided abstruse technical phases, and was very direct and personal in tone.</p>
<p>Hartshorne was the first philosopher to extensively employ the term &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019; and thus may be credited with bringing the word into something approaching mainstream philosophical discourse. He was open and explicit about his panpsychist beliefs; panpsychism, he claimed, offers the only viable third way between mechanism and vitalism. It also treads a middle ground between &#x201C;extreme materialism&#x201D; (eliminativism) and Cartesian dualism. And it allows for a new, more naturalistic vision of God&#x2014;approaching a form of pantheism. Writing very much like William James, with echoes of Empedocles and Campanella, Hartshorne argued that panpsychism offers a sympathetic view of the world, and in particular a sympathetic epistemology that holds great promise for society.</p>
<p>All these ideas were introduced in one of Hartshorne&#x2019;s first major works, <i>Beyond Humanism</i> (1937). The entire book is panpsychist in tone, but it is the central theme of two chapters: &#x201C;Mind and Matter&#x201D; and &#x201C;Mind and Body: Organic Sympathy.&#x201D; The former begins with a critique of science and the scientific method, which, Hartshorne says, treats objects in nature not as individuals but as &#x201C;crowds,&#x201D; &#x201C;swarms,&#x201D; and &#x201C;aggregates.&#x201D; Mind and sentience are not to be found in aggregates but only in true individuals, and thus science overlooks the possibility of panpsychism&#x2014;interpreted as meaning that all true individuals possess minds. The latter chapter outlines a panpsychist epistemology in which the mind knows the body through &#x201C;organic sympathy&#x201D; with sentient cells.</p>
<p>The issue of &#x201C;aggregates&#x201D; versus &#x201C;true individuals&#x201D; is central to Hartshorne&#x2019;s interpretation of panpsychism. In fact some philosophers, among them David Ray Griffin, claim that this point is crucial to the entire process view, as it allows Whitehead&#x2019;s system to avoid potentially debilitating criticisms of standard dual-aspect panpsychism. It furthermore directly addresses a question that is central to virtually all panpsychist theories&#x2014;the combination problem: How can a unified collective consciousness arise from the mental qualities of lower orders of matter, such as atoms or subatomic particles? This question requires further examination, beginning with a brief historical review.</p>
<p>There is a significant context to this issue of aggregates that the process philosophers have generally neglected, and thus they overlook essential weaknesses in their position. The problem relates to the notion of substance, which began with Democritus&#x2019; atomic theory. Since Democritus held that only atoms and the void were real, he was compelled to argue that all ordinary large-scale objects only appeared to be solid substances. A rock, a tree, and a human being were only sophisticated aggregations of imperceptibly small atoms; their unity was real only in the sense that they appeared as singular objects. &#x201C;The objects of sense are supposed to be real and it is customary to regard them as such, but in truth they are not.&#x201D;<a id="FN17a"/><a href="#FN17"><sup>17</sup></a> The solidity of ordinary objects is taken strictly &#x201C;by convention.&#x201D; Aggregates thus have no true unity; they are not true individuals.</p>
<p>Giordano Bruno read Democritus and embraced his ideas. Yet Bruno also believed in the world-soul and in a universe animated throughout all its parts. He wrote that &#x201C;all the forms of natural things are souls,&#x201D; and that all things &#x201C;possess life, or at least the vital principle&#x201D; (1584a/1998: 44). As was noted earlier, he believed that so-called inanimate objects, such as a table or items of clothing, are not animate as wholes, but that &#x201C;as natural things and composites, they have within them matter and form&#x201D; and thus &#x201C;part of that spiritual substance.&#x201D; This spiritual substance or vital principle is a kind of latent soul that becomes fully animate when absorbed into the body of a plant or an animal. Since the vital principle is present in the smallest portions of matter, Bruno concluded that all atoms, or monads, must be in some sense ensouled: &#x201C;Here is the monad, the atom: and the whole Spirit extending hence upon every side.&#x201D; (in Singer 1950: 74) All things are made of monads, and therefore all things have, at least, this atomic soul in them. But the object as a whole, if it is &#x201C;inanimate,&#x201D; possesses no unified higher-order soul.</p>
<p>Leibniz was also well acquainted with Democritus and cited him often. And he probably was familiar with Bruno&#x2019;s work, though he doesn&#x2019;t seem to have mentioned it. Like Democritus, he held that solidity of ordinary matter was only an appearance, an &#x201C;accidental unity,&#x201D; a &#x201C;phenomenon,&#x201D; something like a rainbow. Leibniz followed Bruno in attributing mental qualities to all monads, but that left him with some daunting problems. First, he had to explain why such things as rocks and tables, though composed of sentient monads, were not in themselves somehow animate. Bruno simply made a flat assertion that this was so, but offered no real argument. Leibniz had some ideas on how to solve that problem. A second and related problem, which Democritus and Bruno completely bypassed, was an accounting of the human soul, or mind: How could a single, large-scale, unified mind arise from monadic souls? That is, how can we account for the combination problem?</p>
<p>To his credit, Leibniz attempted to address both problems directly, arguing that objects were collections of monads and that some of these objects&#x2014;those, such as animals and plants, with &#x201C;a thoroughly indivisible and naturally indestructible being&#x201D; (1686b/1989: 79)&#x2014;possessed a unifying and dominant monad. This served as the soul or mind of the individual. Such individuals were considered both &#x201C;living beings&#x201D; and &#x201C;composite substances.&#x201D; The other, non-dominant monads composed the body of the living being, and were linked to the dominant monad either by pre-established harmony or, in Leibniz&#x2019; later theory, by the <i>vinculum substantiale</i>.</p>
<p>Yet it must be admitted that Leibniz never gave any explanation of how the dominant monad came to be, or why it appeared only in animals. His discussion of borderline cases is informative. Only once does he directly address the issue of larger-scale objects: &#x201C;[I]f I am asked in particular what I say about the sun, the earthly globe, the moon, trees, and other similar bodies and even about beasts. I cannot be absolutely certain whether they are animated, or even whether they are substances.&#x201D; (1686b/1989: 80) His uncertainty about trees, and presumably all plants, apparently subsided soon thereafter; by 1687 he clearly included plants among the sentient. &#x201C;I do not dare assert&#x201D; he wrote, &#x201C;that plants have no soul, life, or substantial form.&#x201D; (1687/1989: 82) Later he added this:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[I]t seems probable that animals, which are indeed analogous to us, and similarly plants, which correspond to animals in many ways, are not composed of body alone, but also of soul, by which the animal or plant, the single indivisible substance &#x2026; is controlled. (1690/1989: 104)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Near the end of his life, Leibniz observed that &#x201C;the limbs of [each] living body are full of other living beings, plants, animals, each of which also has its entelechy, or its dominant monad&#x201D; (<i>Monadology</i>, section 70). The issue of plants is relevant because Hartshorne, ignoring Leibniz and dubiously citing Whitehead, pointedly excludes them from the ranks of the animate.</p>
<p>Two hundred years later, Whitehead developed his theory of the organism as the model for reality, apparently employing some of Leibniz&#x2019;s ideas. But, like his predecessor, he had an ambiguous conception of the aggregate. Whitehead was faced with the same issue as the monadists: how to account for combination and unity of the human mind. In his system, point-like occasions of experience with both physical and mental poles were likened to &#x201C;monads with windows&#x201D;&#x2014;that is, they were considered capable of interaction. But Whitehead did not say clearly how they were unified, or in what types of beings.</p>
<p>In Whitehead&#x2019;s last four major philosophical books&#x2014;<i>Science and the Modern World</i> (1925), <i>Process and Reality</i> (1929), <i>Adventures of Ideas</i> (1933), and <i>Modes of Thought</i> (1938)&#x2014;there is virtually no discussion of Leibniz&#x2019;s notion of aggregates. Leibniz&#x2019;s dominant monad theory is largely ignored, except for a few passing mentions in <i>Process and Reality</i>. This is rather surprising, especially in light of the generally high regard Whitehead seems to have had for Leibniz. Furthermore, the discussion of aggregates&#x2014;or, as Whitehead prefers, societies&#x2014;is sporadic and obtuse throughout. <i>Science</i> and <i>Adventures</i> make almost no mention of the topic. <i>Process and Reality</i>, by contrast, contains a lengthy discussion of the nature of a society. The one consistent theme is that all objects, from atoms to stones to humans, are in reality &#x201C;societies of [point-like] actual occasions,&#x201D; much as Leibniz saw things as aggregates of point-like monads. However, Whitehead offers nearly a dozen different categories of society, including &#x201C;electromagnetic,&#x201D; &#x201C;corpuscular,&#x201D; &#x201C;structured,&#x201D; &#x201C;specialized,&#x201D; &#x201C;stabilized,&#x201D; &#x201C;living,&#x201D; and &#x201C;subordinate.&#x201D; It is never clear which of those categories possess unified sentience and which do not.</p>
<p>A number of passages in <i>Process and Reality</i> are vague and conflicting. First, the critical passage on &#x201C;the ultimate metaphysical principle&#x201D;&#x2014;the &#x201C;advance from disjunction to conjunction,&#x201D; or, more succinct, &#x201C;the many become one, and are increased by one&#x201D; (1929/1978: 21)&#x2014;seems to apply to any aggregate of occasions. Whitehead bears the burden of explaining why, though an ultimate principle, this advance to unity doesn&#x2019;t occur in all things.</p>
<p>Second, &#x201C;structured societies&#x201D; are those that have both &#x201C;dominant&#x201D; and &#x201C;subordinate&#x201D; sub-societies. The overall structure provides a protected environment that sustains the sub-societies. &#x201C;Molecules are structured societies, and so in all probability are separate electrons and protons. Crystals are structured societies. But gases are not.&#x201D; (99) Elsewhere Whitehead includes &#x201C;crystals, rocks, planets and sun&#x201D; (102) in this list. Structured societies have two ways of creating a protective environment. The first is by &#x201C;massive average objectification of a nexus,&#x201D; which would appear to apply to stones and such. However, &#x201C;this mode of solution requires the intervention of mentality&#x201D;; further, &#x201C;this development of mentality is characteristic of the actual occasions which make up the structured societies we know as &#x2018;material bodies&#x2019;&#x201D; (101). Whitehead adds that &#x201C;such mentality represents the first grade of ascent,&#x201D; possessing &#x201C;some initiative of conceptual integration, but no originality in conceptual prehension.&#x201D; Apparently, then, there is a latent mentality in even the simplest structured society. The second way is &#x201C;appetition,&#x201D; i.e., the ability to &#x201C;originate novelty to match the novelty of the environment&#x201D; (102). This ability ranges from &#x201C;thinking&#x201D; (in higher organisms) to &#x201C;thoughtless adjustment of aesthetic emphasis&#x201D; (in lower ones). Societies that act in this second way are deemed living or organic, the others inorganic. However, &#x201C;there is no absolute gap between &#x2018;living&#x2019; and &#x2018;non-living&#x2019; societies.&#x201D; Thus, they seem to exist on a continuum of mentality&#x2014;again, implying mentality in all.</p>
<p>Third, the standard view of post-Whitehead process philosophers is that atoms, molecules, and individual cells are included among the sentient. On the one hand, the above point suggests this. On the other, Whitehead explicitly notes that &#x201C;a cell gives no evidence whatsoever of a single unified mentality&#x201D; (104). Later he goes further: &#x201C;In the case of single cells, of vegetation, and of the lower forms of animal life, we have no ground for conjecturing living personality.&#x201D; (107)</p>
<p>Fourth, and by contrast, Whitehead suggests elsewhere that all aggregates can be seen as individuals in their own right:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]here is the &#x2026; potential aggregation of actual entities into a super-actuality in respect to which the true actualities play the part of coordinate subdivisions. In other words, just as &#x2026; one atomic actuality can be treated as though it were many coordinate actualities, in the same way &#x2026; a nexus of many actualities can be treated as though it were one actuality. This is what we habitually do in the case of the span of life of a molecule, or of a piece of rock, or of a human body. (286&#x2013;287)</p></blockquote>
<p>Such is the case as presented in <i>Process and Reality</i>. One would have hoped for a clearer and more decisive account of this central issue.</p>
<p>In <i>Modes of Thought</i> we find other passages that conflict with the standard view. Whitehead initially informs us that &#x201C;a vegetable is a democracy; an animal is dominated by one, or more centers of experience&#x201D; (1938: 24). Unfortunately, he adds that &#x201C;our statement is oversimplified&#x201D; because &#x201C;the distinction between animals and vegetables is not sharp cut. Some traces of dominance can be observed in vegetables, and some traces of democratic independence can be found in animals.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Whitehead continues by articulating four types of aggregations: the &#x201C;lowest&#x201D; or &#x201C;nonliving,&#x201D; which is &#x201C;dominated by the average&#x201D;&#x2014;though even here he allows that &#x201C;flashes of selection&#x201D; are possible, if only &#x201C;sporadic and ineffective&#x201D; (27); &#x201C;vegetable grade,&#x201D; which &#x201C;has added coordinated, organic individuality to the impersonal average of inorganic nature&#x201D;; &#x201C;animal grade,&#x201D; with &#x201C;at least one central actuality&#x201D;; and &#x201C;human grade,&#x201D; with &#x201C;novelty of functioning.&#x201D; He reiterates a similar sequence at the end of the book, again emphasizing &#x201C;the aspect of continuity between these modes&#x201D; (157). The conclusion would seem to be either that Whitehead was trying to articulate a tremendously complex theory of the aggregate or that he in fact saw some degree of mentality in all things <i>as wholes</i>, and not simply in the mental poles of their constituent occasions.</p>
<p>Reading Whitehead in light of Leibniz&#x2019;s monadology, Hartshorne claims that only things with a deep organic unity qualify as true or &#x201C;genuine&#x201D; individuals.<a id="FN18a"/><a href="#FN18"><sup>18</sup></a> In the absence of a clear theoretic structure, Hartshorne concludes that precisely which objects qualify is not definable <i>a priori</i>, but is rather a function of empirical study.<a id="FN19a"/><a href="#FN19"><sup>19</sup></a> Generally speaking, true individuals exhibit some&#x2014;if even only a slight&#x2014;degree of spontaneity and unpredictability, which is indicative of a unifying, dominant force. Aggregates, on the other hand, behave very predictably and mechanistically. They display absolutely no degree of unified action. Any inherent dynamics, such as those of the constituent atoms, are averaged out by the aggregate, leaving no net force to serve as a unified individual.</p>
<p>Based on his rough empirical assessment, and drawing from certain passages in Whitehead, Hartshorne determines that not only humans but all animals clearly display spontaneous unified behavior, even down to the level of one-celled creatures. At the level of the micro-constituents of matter, he includes molecules, atoms, and sub-atomic particles; their unpredictability and their spontaneity had been confirmed by then-recent advances in quantum theory and by the probabilistic behavior of such particles.</p>
<p>At the higher end of the scale, Hartshorne jumps directly from humanity to the universe as a whole, including it among the ranks of animate beings. He explicitly excludes virtually everything else, including inorganic objects such as rocks, tables, and houses. Also excluded are all higher-order systems&#x2014;e.g., a forest, a social group, or the Earth as a whole&#x2014;even though these contain sentient parts. Even individual plants are excluded; apparently basing his view on Whitehead&#x2019;s &#x201C;vegetables are a democracy&#x201D; statement, Hartshorne sees plants as mere colonies of sentient cells rather than as truly integrated individuals. Hence, all aggregates, even though composed of sentient atoms, molecules, and perhaps cells, are not in themselves sentient. Only the genuine individuals, as determined empirically, are unified animate beings.</p>
<p>In this sense, process philosophy effectively advocates a dualistic theory of mind. Objects and structures classified as true individuals possess mind and have experiences; all others do not. Experience or sentience is posited as a fundamental, ontological characteristic of reality, and thus there exists a clear divide between the experiencers and the non-experiencers. Griffin (1998: 169&#x2013;198) and some other recent writers attempt to downplay this distinction, characterizing it as upholding a form of monism because the aggregates are not &#x201C;true beings.&#x201D; But the distinction is there nonetheless. There is no clear ontological separation between the mere aggregates and true individuals. This point is important because, as Griffin notes, it is presented as the way out of a number of critical attacks against process panpsychism.</p>
<p>Like Leibniz and Whitehead, Hartshorne doesn&#x2019;t offer much in the way of argumentation for his particular list of animate things. The reliance on empiricism is a matter of epistemological concern, but it says nothing about the theoretical and ontological basis for such a divide. Why should it be that only certain aggregates are blessed with mind and experience, while others are not? And what is the ontological basis by which a dominant or &#x201C;regnant&#x201D; monad takes control and serves as the mind? Are these to be taken as unfathomable mysteries? Are they simply brute facts of reality? One is led to suspect that process theory is significantly incomplete on this matter.</p>
<p>Ultimately this dichotomy between true individuals and aggregates seems entirely too arbitrary. If one postulates a fundamental distinction in nature, then one ought to have a compelling reason for doing so.<a id="FN20a"/><a href="#FN20"><sup>20</sup></a> Both a rock and an animal are aggregates of sentient atoms, yet one is seen as sentient in its own right and the other is not&#x2014;what is the difference? Of course they differ in many ways&#x2014;internal complexity, dynamic relation to the environment, etc.&#x2014;but they are alike in their constitution <i>as aggregates</i>. A living aggregate is clearly different from a non-living aggregate, but not in its aggregateness. The process view argues not merely that they are different in degree, but that they are ontologically different, different in kind; the true individuals are said to possess something real and fundamental that the others do not have. Even <i>a priori</i>, it seems that any two coherent and persistent structures of mass-energy should share certain core characteristics, and that (unless one is prepared to argue for eliminativism) mind is among them&#x2014;which is essentially Schopenhauer&#x2019;s argument.</p>
<p>Apart from the problem of aggregates, Hartshorne tackles the issue of &#x201C;proving&#x201D; panpsychism. Rather than attempting to do so directly, he adopts Paulsen&#x2019;s tactic and turns the question around. First he asks whether science, which is in the business of proofs, can disprove panpsychism. He answers No, both because it treats things primarily in aggregate form and also because it cannot distinguish the fact <i>that</i> an object feels from <i>how</i> it feels. He goes on to explain that philosophical reasoning offers no inherent basis for rejecting panpsychism. On the contrary, there are &#x201C;great philosophical advantages&#x201D; (1937: 175) to panpsychism, including explaining the relation between sensation and feeling, and a deeper comprehension of the concepts of space and time. Relying on a Bergsonian argument for memory in all aspects of reality, he states that &#x201C;the idea of time is unintelligible unless panpsychism is true&#x201D; (174).</p>
<p>Hartshorne then argues that panpsychism has been damaged by its association with idealism. In the early 1930s, as the views of Kant and Berkeley were being discredited by the rising positivist philosophy, panpsychism too was disparaged. Moore and Perry were among the leading critics. Yet it should be clear, Hartshorne says, that panpsychism, while conceivably a form of idealism, is substantially different from a Berkelian or a Kantian position. Hartshorne associates it with the so-called idealism of Leibniz and Whitehead, which is almost a realist or even objectivist view.<a id="FN21a"/><a href="#FN21"><sup>21</sup></a> The &#x201C;absurdity of [traditional] idealism,&#x201D; he says, &#x201C;has no bearing upon panpsychism&#x201D; (177).</p>
<p>Hartshorne proceeds to claim that organic sympathy, and its accompanying panpsychism, is capable of resolving six major philosophical problems: mind-body, subject-object, causality, the nature of time, the nature of individuality, and the problem of knowledge. In short, the human mind results from a &#x201C;sympathetic participation&#x201D; or &#x201C;sympathetic rapport&#x201D; with the sentient cells of the body, whose sentience is itself a product of the rapport with the sentient atoms. The relation of subject to object is, similarly an exchange between enminded participants, without which knowledge would be impossible. More generally, all causality is manifested through such a resonance between two minds. Moments in time are a &#x201C;sympathetic bond&#x201D; between past and future, much as Bergson and Whitehead described. The &#x201C;individual&#x201D; is a result of a balance between the integrative power of sympathy and the disintegrative power of its opposite, antipathy; in the manner of Empedocles, Hartshorne asserts that pure sympathy would destroy individuality (by merging all into one), and that pure antipathy would not allow for any structure or knowledge at all.<a id="FN22a"/><a href="#FN22"><sup>22</sup></a></p>
<p>These ideas, and especially the emphasis on panpsychism, recurred frequently throughout Hartshorne&#x2019;s long career. They appeared in one of his discussions of freedom and free will,<a id="FN23a"/><a href="#FN23"><sup>23</sup></a> and they were featured in his entry on panpsychism in <i>A History of Philosophical Systems</i> (1950: 442&#x2013;453)&#x2014;a woefully incomplete survey of the field, incidentally. Then, in the late 1970s, he published some important articles directly arguing for panpsychism. The most notable of these was &#x201C;Physics and Psychics: The Place of Mind in Nature&#x201D; (1977), in which he again presents panpsychism&#x2014;now preferring to call it &#x201C;psychical monism&#x201D; or &#x201C;psychicalism&#x201D;&#x2014;as a third way between dualism and materialism: &#x201C;Psychical monism avoids the most obvious demerits of its two rivals. It is a monism, yet it is not a materialism.&#x201D; (1977: 90) He offers a straightforward case for panpsychism, beginning with four reasons why inanimate objects appear devoid of mind: apparent inactivity or inertness, lack of freedom and initiative, absence of a clear distinction between parts and the whole, and lack of purpose. He disposes of these four by recalling the distinction between aggregates and true individuals. Rocks and chairs are, he says, not sentient individuals but only aggregates of sentient atoms and molecules. Matter is not inert but is continuously active and dynamic at the atomic level. Quantum indeterminacy is a kind of freedom. And &#x201C;purpose&#x201D; probably is reflected over varying lengths of time, which may be exceedingly short or exceptionally long; it would require superhuman abilities to grasp the full range of temporality and to declare definitively that purpose was nonexistent.</p>
<p>On the positive side of the argument, Hartshorne asks &#x201C;What are the advantages of giving up the notion of mere dead, mindless physical things?&#x201D; He concedes that the advantages are mostly theoretical, but he argues that giving them up &#x201C;enable[s] us to arrive at a view of life and nature in which the results of science are given their significance along with the values with which art, ethics, and religion are concerned&#x201D; (92). In other words, spiritual and reverential values are strengthened by such a worldview. More specifically, Hartshorne cites some strictly philosophical advantages: (1) The problem of how matter produces mind is dissolved. (2) It supports the intuitive view that organic and inorganic substances lie along one continuum of existence. (3) The problem of causality is resolved by taking account of memory and perception or anticipation. (4) It provides the most satisfactory solution to the mind-body issue, describing it as &#x201C;a relation of sympathy.&#x201D; (5) It solves the old problem of primary and secondary qualities by ascribing secondary or subjective qualities to all things. (6) It provides for an account of behavior of all things in psychical terms, relating to perception, emotion, memory, and so on.</p>
<p>In the final analysis, Hartshorne concludes that panpsychism or psychicalism has little direct bearing on matters of science <i>per se</i> but does profoundly influence our human attitudes, and consequently our actions. &#x201C;For logical, aesthetic, and religious reasons our view of the general [panpsychic] cosmic status of quality (and value) influences our behavior, and in this sense its consideration is pragmatically significant.&#x201D; (1990: 397) It is, after all, the most viable ontology available to us&#x2014;certainly preferable to an utterly unintelligible materialism: &#x201C;[T]he concept of &#x2018;mere dead insentient matter&#x2019; is an appeal to invincible ignorance. At no time will this expression ever constitute knowledge.&#x201D; (1977: 95)</p>
<section>
<h2>Notes</h2>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN1"/><span><a href="#FN1a">1.</a></span> James 1920, volume 2: 198.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN2"/><span><a href="#FN2a">2.</a></span> He considers the latter &#x201C;absolutely conclusive.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN3"/><span><a href="#FN3a">3.</a></span> For example, Montague defines consciousness under this theory as &#x201C;the potential &#x2026; presence of a thing at a space or time in which that thing is not actually present.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN4"/><span><a href="#FN4a">4.</a></span> For another perspective, see Bjelland 1981.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN5"/><span><a href="#FN5a">5.</a></span> Skolimowski&#x2019;s idea of &#x201C;evolutionary God&#x201D; as an endpoint of universal evolution is notable. See his 1993 work <i>A Sacred Place to Dwell.</i></aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN6"/><span><a href="#FN6a">6.</a></span> For a good discussion of this concept that &#x201C;mind-object relations have analogues at each level of finite existence,&#x201D; see Brettschneider 1964.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN7"/><span><a href="#FN7a">7.</a></span> Lossky 1901.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN8"/><span><a href="#FN8a">8.</a></span> Lossky, cited in Starchenko 1994 (p. 656).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN9"/><span><a href="#FN9a">9.</a></span> It was this idea that observation (more generally &#x201C;experience&#x201D; or &#x201C;sentience&#x201D;) was implicated in any valid concept of reality that John Wheeler later developed into his notion of the participatory universe.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN10"/><span><a href="#FN10a">10.</a></span> Rorty&#x2019;s bias against panpsychism comes out loud and clear. He calls &#x201C;futile&#x201D; any attempt to &#x201C;invoke panpsychism in order to bridge the gap between experience and nature&#x201D; (6). He sees the only valid approach as <i>contrasting</i> experience, consciousness, or mind with nature, not in seeking to understand their connection and overlap. This is a typical objectivist, positivist approach. He claims that Dewey &#x201C;dodg[ed] hard epistemological questions&#x201D; in viewing nature as continuous with experience. Rorty&#x2019;s answer is to create a break in continuity &#x201C;between non-language-users (amoebae, squirrels, babies) and language users,&#x201D; assigning mind and cognition only to the latter. But this approach has at least three major problems. First, what is the definition of &#x2018;language&#x2019;? Certainly any form of information exchange could constitute a kind of language. Second, at what point do babies acquire mind? Does mind gradually come into existence, or does it leap into being at some initial utterance? Either answer is fraught with difficulties. Third, one cannot help but feel that this distinction based on language is an even more arbitrary and indefensible break, a dodging of hard <i>ontological</i> problems. The most definitive evidence of Rorty&#x2019;s stance occurs in a footnote to the article cited above: &#x201C;All I have to say about [panpsychism] is contained in &#x2018;The Subjectivist Principle and the Linguistic Turn&#x2019;&#x201D; (211). The 1963 article doesn&#x2019;t contain a single mention of the term &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019; or even any discernible reference to the concept.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN11"/><span><a href="#FN11a">11.</a></span> See chapter 6 of Berman 1981.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN12"/><span><a href="#FN12a">12.</a></span> Reproduced in Ford 1984. Citations are of that work.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN13"/><span><a href="#FN13a">13.</a></span> See Russell 1921: 25.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN14"/><span><a href="#FN14a">14.</a></span> Recall the discussion on Epicurus in chapter 2 above.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN15"/><span><a href="#FN15a">15.</a></span> Hartshorne (1937: 222) makes the same observation: &#x201C;only sheer agnosticism separates Russell from panpsychism.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN16"/><span><a href="#FN16a">16.</a></span> Personal communication, January 2003.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN17"/><span><a href="#FN17a">17.</a></span> Fragment 9 (Smith 1934: 40).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN18"/><span><a href="#FN18a">18.</a></span> Elsewhere Hartshorne called Leibniz&#x2019;s position &#x201C;the first clear statement of panpsychist theory&#x201D; (1950: 444), apparently overlooking all the developments after the early Greeks&#x2014;most notably, Renaissance naturalism.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN19"/><span><a href="#FN19a">19.</a></span> Interestingly, Plato flatly disagreed with this view. For him, the only way to determine anything about the psyche in apparently inanimate objects was via rational reflection. Recall the passage cited earlier, reflecting on the soul of the sun: &#x201C;Everyone can see [the sun&#x2019;s] body, but no one can see its soul&#x2014;not that you could see the soul of any other creature, living or dying. [Such a thing] is totally below the level of our bodily senses, and is perceptible by reason alone.&#x201D; (<i>Laws</i>, 898d)</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN20"/><span><a href="#FN20a">20.</a></span> Griffin believes he has a compelling reason, in that the dominant monad preserves the freedom of action of the individual (1998: 97). The dominant monad both acts on and is acted upon by the body. On the process view, this two-way causality is the basis of freedom. There are at least two problems with this: (1) It assumes a fairly conventional view of freedom of the will, when in fact there are other ways to conceive this, apart from determinism. (2) Nothing Griffin says rules out the possibility that all things have a dominant monad. Simply because we see no apparent spontaneity in rocks doesn&#x2019;t mean it isn&#x2019;t there at some low level, or on some long time scale. This issue is discussed further below.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN21"/><span><a href="#FN21a">21.</a></span> Hartshorne was not entirely enamored of Leibniz&#x2019;s philosophy. He criticized his notorious mechanistic stance, and was fundamentally opposed to the mechanistic worldview in general: &#x201C;mechanism and materialism are really two aspects of the same view&#x2014;the view that the world is fundamentally dead, blind, uncreative, insentient&#x201D; (1937: 180).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN22"/><span><a href="#FN22a">22.</a></span> See Hartshorne 1937: 194&#x2013;199.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN23"/><span><a href="#FN23a">23.</a></span> Hartshorne 1949.</aside></section></section><!--LinebreakQC:true--></body></html>