<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf8f" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="8f"><div class="pc pc8f w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xae h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">120<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3c h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Geolocation Information</div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Geolocation data is any data re<span class="_ _0"/>garding the physical location of an asset o<span class="_ _0"/>wned by or </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">related to the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. Usually<span class="_ _2"/>, this asset will directly relate to a specic </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">employee; other times, it might be shared among employees. F<span class="_ _0"/>or our purposes, there </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w main forms of technical geolocation data: geo-metadata, geo-IP data, and </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">GPS data. There are also nontechnical w<span class="_ _0"/>ays of obtaining geolocation data, which are </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y52f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cov<span class="_ _0"/>ered in the next chapter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y2d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the most popular places to obtain geolocation data is from metadata, </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y709 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">typically from digital photos. Many cameras and smart phones by def<span class="_ _0"/>ault will embed </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y70a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the GPS coordinates and the specic time and date when the picture was taken. GPS </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y70b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">(Global Positioning System) uses satellites in space to calculate the current location </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y70c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on earth with a roughly three-foot radius measure of accuracy!</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd yd65 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Both real-time and historical geodata can be v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable for us. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, by </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd66 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">gaining the historical data on where an indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual employee has been in the past </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd67 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">week, month, or year<span class="_ _0"/>, we can identify where the<span class="_ _0"/>y might be in the future, allowing </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd68 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">us to target them remotely or tar<span class="_ _0"/>get their homes or work when the<span class="_ _0"/>y are aw<span class="_ _0"/>ay<span class="_ _2"/>. Or </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">by obtaining the real-time geolocation data associated with a mobile work truck </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or laptop system, we can like<span class="_ _0"/>wise determine where an important person or asset is </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">currently<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd yd69 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although this data can be extremely useful for tar<span class="_ _0"/>geting a remote person or </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd6a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">system, it can also just be helpful to understand the geographic presence and ke<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd6b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">locations for our target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd yd6c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Geolocation data is starting to crop up e<span class="_ _0"/>verywhere; some of these places are </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd6d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extremely interesting and une<span class="_ _0"/>xpected. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, a lot of websites or smart phone </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd6e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">apps may continuously track and log the GPS coordinates of its users. Sometimes, </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd6f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this is an integral part of the website or application. <span class="_ _2"/>Apps like Foursquare, which lets </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd70 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">users announce to their friends where they’<span class="_ _2"/>ve been, must kno<span class="_ _0"/>w where that person is </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd71 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">located to provide the full ef<span class="_ _0"/>fect of the application.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd yd72 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Other applications might simply log this information to make the user’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd73 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">experience better—for e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, by displaying dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent advertisements based on </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd74 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">what city the user is currently in. In some extreme cases, there seems to be no reason </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd75 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for the application to log the user’<span class="_ _2"/>s coordinates, but it does so anyw<span class="_ _0"/>ay<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd yd76 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A fantastic tool for automatically obtaining and analyzing the geolocation data </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd77 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">embedded in pictures is the geostalker tool, which is part of the osintstalker project </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd78 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">at https://github<span class="_ _0"/>.com/milo2012/osintstalker<span class="_ _2"/>. Geostalker allo<span class="_ _0"/>ws you to grab all of </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd79 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the geolocation metadata from pictures that a specic indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual user has posted on </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd yd7a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">image sharing sites such as Instagram, Flickr<span class="_ _0"/>, and <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _2"/>witter<span class="_ _0"/>, among others.</div><a class="" href="https://github.com/milo2012/osintstalker"><div class="d m1" style="border-style:none;position:absolute;left:101.708239px;bottom:139.126228px;width:181.000000px;height:12.000000px;background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.000001);"/></a></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>