<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf95" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="95"><div class="pc pc95 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xac h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">126<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 xb9 h1b y171 ff3 fsd fc4 sc0 ls0 ws0">O</div><div class="t m0 x65 hd y172 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">btaining nontechnical data about a target is much simpler than you might </div><div class="t m0 x65 hd y173 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">expect. <span class="_ _0"/>While it is one of the most critical steps in compromising a tar<span class="_ _0"/>get </div><div class="t m0 x65 hd y174 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization, it is often the most o<span class="_ _0"/>verlook<span class="_ _0"/>ed. <span class="_ _2"/>A successful reconnaissance </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y175 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">journey starts in front of a search engine, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut it does not stop there. This simple step </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y176 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will help you identify the areas of greatest opportunity by familiarizing you with ke<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y177 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">information about the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization, including employees, locations, b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y452 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">units, partners, and more. </div><div class="t m0 x6f hd y453 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>o start, identify and browse your target’<span class="_ _2"/>s website and any websites associated </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y17a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with the target—for e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, sister companies, blogs, partner sites, and so on. This </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y17b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">information will gi<span class="_ _0"/>ve you the foundation for understanding the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get organization’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y17c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">business and not just simply their technical vulnerabilities. Remember that we w<span class="_ _0"/>ant </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y17d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to reach a point where we not only kno<span class="_ _0"/>w the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization’<span class="_ _2"/>s technology and </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y17e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">networks better than the<span class="_ _0"/>y know themselv<span class="_ _0"/>es, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut we also want to understand their </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y17f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">business better than the<span class="_ _0"/>y do. Next, we’<span class="_ _0"/>ll mov<span class="_ _0"/>e on to querying search engines for </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y180 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">rele<span class="_ _0"/>vant information related to your tar<span class="_ _0"/>get’<span class="_ _2"/>s business. Explore the rst fe<span class="_ _0"/>w pages of </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y181 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">search results for general themes and then mov<span class="_ _0"/>e on to specic search terms. </div><div class="t m0 x6f hd y182 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This bears repeating: Start your nontechnical reconnaissance by simply bro<span class="_ _0"/>wsing </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y183 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">and reading your target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization’<span class="_ _2"/>s website!</div><div class="t m0 x6f hd y457 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The nontechnical nature of the information we’ll look for doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t limit its use </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y458 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to social engineering. Some of these nontechnical pieces of information, such as </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y186 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">business partners, projects, press releases, and ne<span class="_ _0"/>ws articles, will help you v<span class="_ _0"/>alidate </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y187 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">existing technical information and identify additional information sources. F<span class="_ _0"/>or </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y188 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example, man<span class="_ _0"/>y times, I’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e found a press release from a vendor associated with the </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y189 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization talking about the success of a specic technology deployment, </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd y64f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">such as a widespread deployment of a specic wireless technology or the </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd ydc3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">implementation of a cutting-edge security product.</div><div class="t m0 x6f hd ydc4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are many broad cate<span class="_ _0"/>gories for the sources of information, as well as the </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd ydc5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">type of information, about a target.  By or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizing the types of data into these </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd ydc6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">categories, it can help to understand some of the lar<span class="_ _0"/>ge buck<span class="_ _0"/>ets you’<span class="_ _2"/>re trying to ll </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd ydc7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with information about your target. F<span class="_ _0"/>ollo<span class="_ _0"/>wing are a few widely accepted (b<span class="_ _0"/>ut not </div><div class="t m0 x6e hd ydc8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">exhausti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e) categories of reconnaissance data:</div><div class="t m0 xaf h1f ydc9 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x71 h2c ydca ff3 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws2a">OSINT – Open-Source Intelligence<span class="_ _21"> </span><span class="ff4">Any information obtained from publicly </span></div><div class="t m0 x71 hd ydcb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable resources (e.g., the Internet, public records, or public websites) </div><div class="t m0 xaf h1f ydcc ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x71 h2c ydcd ff3 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">HUMINT – Human Intelligence<span class="_ _a"> </span><span class="ff4">Information collected by and from humans </span></div><div class="t m0 x71 hd ydce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">(e.g., collected via social engineering face to face, o<span class="_ _0"/>ver the phone, or e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en </div><div class="t m0 x71 hd ydcf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">eav<span class="_ _0"/>esdropping in a public place)</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>