<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfae" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="ae"><div class="pc pcae w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x5d h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 5: Reconnaissance: Nontechnical Data<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">151</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb3f fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">[+] Emails found:</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb40 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">------------------</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb41 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">jdsprite@weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb42 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">kcarter@weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb43 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">info@weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb44 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">spepperdine@weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb45 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tanderson@weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb63 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">lfitzgerald@weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb64 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">jbarnes@weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd yf73 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e can also use the same exact method we discussed previously using Burp Suite </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yf74 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to capture page contents as we’<span class="_ _2"/>re browsing a site. I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve found this to be the easiest </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1054 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">way to obtain user information from LinkedIn and then mangle the names to create </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1055 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e-mail addresses. By using the proxy feature of Burp Suite, bro<span class="_ _0"/>wsing all pages </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1056 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">associated with an organization, and then e<span class="_ _0"/>xporting those pages, we can search the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1057 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">data for v<span class="_ _0"/>alid names and create e-mail addresses based on the format at use at the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1058 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsc ws17">target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. </div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1059 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In addition, in some cases, due to misconguration of mail servers, a tar<span class="_ _0"/>get </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y105a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization can mak<span class="_ _0"/>e it easy to enumerate valid e-mail addresses. <span class="_ _0"/>The two most </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y105b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">common conguration vulnerabilities are the use of the Simple Mail T<span class="_ _2"/>ransfer </div><div class="t m0 x3 h3f y105c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Protocol (SMTP) Expand (<span class="fff">EXPN</span>) and <span class="_ _2"/>V<span class="_ _3"/>erify (<span class="fff">VRFY</span>) commands. </div><div class="t m0 x4 h3f y105d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The <span class="fff">VRFY</span> command allo<span class="_ _0"/>ws us to verify that an e-mail address is v<span class="_ _0"/>alid on our </div><div class="t m0 x3 h3f y105e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">target mail serv<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _2"/>. The <span class="fff">EXPN</span> command tells us the list of e-mail addresses that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y105f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are members of a mailing list. There is a Perl script already written and included </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1060 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with Kali Linux that can perform these functions for us, as sho<span class="_ _0"/>wn in the following </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1061 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example. In this case, users.txt w<span class="_ _0"/>ould simply be a list of e-mail addresses that we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1062 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wish to test at the mail.weaktarget.com serv<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 h40 y1063 fff fs5 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">user@kali:~$ smtp-user-enum.pl -M VRFY -U users.txt -t mail.weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h40 y1064 fff fs5 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">user@kali:~$ smtp-user-enum.pl -M EXPN -U users.txt -t mail.weaktarget.com</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1065 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Nontechnical E-mail Har<span class="_ _1"/>vesting</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1066 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Nontechnical e-mail harvesting is a perfect e<span class="_ _0"/>xample of using the <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1067 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">technique of exploitless e<span class="_ _0"/>xploits. Rather than relying on technical vulnerabilities, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1068 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">we can enumerate useful information about our target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization by simply using </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1069 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">e-mail for its core purpose—that is, to e-mail indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals at the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y106a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">During this phase, it could be easy to just hop in and make a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w mistakes. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e want </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y106b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to be careful to not sho<span class="_ _0"/>w our hand and lose our anonymous adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y106c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e have man<span class="_ _0"/>y good options for maintaining anonymity while e-mailing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y106d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals at our target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. Se<span class="_ _0"/>veral free e-mail service providers are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y106e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, our main issue with using free e-mail services is that almost </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>