<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfbc" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="bc"><div class="pc pcbc w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x6 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 6: Spear Social Engineering<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">165</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is consistent with the assumption to meet your end goal. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll discuss tactical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">implications in our discussion of legitimac<span class="_ _0"/>y triggers, but you should understand that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">manipulating indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals based on the assumptions they make is a strate<span class="_ _0"/>gic concept </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that is wo<span class="_ _0"/>ven throughout man<span class="_ _0"/>y tactical steps.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1196 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Do What W<span class="_ _0"/>orks for Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Possibly the most important strategy within social engineering is to kno<span class="_ _0"/>w yourself </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and use tactics and ex<span class="_ _0"/>ecute attacks that can guarantee your success. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou must use </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">your o<span class="_ _0"/>wn personal strengths and account for your weaknesses based on your own </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1197 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical and mental makeup. Remember the ninja’<span class="_ _2"/>s requirement of executing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1198 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attacks without ego. <span class="_ _1b"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou must perform an ego-free assessment of your strengths </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1199 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and weaknesses to ex<span class="_ _0"/>ecute social engineering attacks that are guaranteed a greater </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y119a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">success rate.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y37f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are many dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent social engineering tactics and specic attacks, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut some </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y380 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of these simply might not be practical for you to ex<span class="_ _0"/>ecute. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, it might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y381 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">be a good option to seduce a female employee of a tar<span class="_ _0"/>get organization in order to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y119b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">steal her physical and logical access tokens, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut if you’<span class="_ _0"/>re so nerv<span class="_ _0"/>ous dealing with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y119c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">women that your idea of a successful interaction is that you didn’<span class="_ _0"/>t faint, well, then </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y119d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">maybe this specic attack isn’t for you. Lik<span class="_ _0"/>ewise, it may be possible to physically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y119e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">break into an organization, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut if you’<span class="_ _2"/>re a 400-pound, six-and-a-half-foot man with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y119f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a perspiration problem, this might not be the best option for you. No<span class="_ _0"/>w these are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extreme (and some<span class="_ _0"/>what comical) e<span class="_ _0"/>xamples, but the point is the same. Be honest with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">yourself, kno<span class="_ _0"/>w yourself, know your capabilities, understand ho<span class="_ _0"/>w people will vie<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">you (physically or otherwise), and choose the attacks and techniques that will work </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for you.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The concept of no ego, which we co<span class="_ _0"/>vered in the methodology<span class="_ _3"/>, is especially </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">important in your social engineering attacks. This attack phase is where problems </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd7f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with ego could ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve the greatest impact on your success. F<span class="_ _0"/>or example, it may be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd80 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls16 ws0">much more fun to break into a facility at the dead of night or claim to be a <span class="ls26">high-roller </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attorney<span class="_ _3"/>, but if pretending to be a member of the cleaning cre<span class="_ _0"/>w and showing up in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y390 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">lthy clothes will get the job done, then I say it’<span class="_ _2"/>s time to put on your dirty clothes.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y11a6 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws16">Preparation</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou have already performed e<span class="_ _0"/>xtensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve preparation when conducting reconnaissance </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">on your target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization and tar<span class="_ _0"/>get individual; you absolutely must perform </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extensi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e research and preparation for your social engineering attacks. The biggest </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11aa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">items are to prepare your story and background.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>