<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfbe" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="be"><div class="pc pcbe w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x6 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 6: Spear Social Engineering<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">167</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">document that certies this, then the number of people willing to trust your </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">statement will rise signicantly<span class="_ _2"/>. It’<span class="_ _0"/>s al<span class="_ _0"/>ways funny to see the number of people who </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are skeptical that the merchandise might be phon<span class="_ _0"/>y but are willing to trust a piece of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">paper that can be just as easily forged.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>o apply this directly to a social engineering attack, consider this: If I tell you I </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">work with the FBI, you might not ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve an<span class="_ _0"/>y reason to belie<span class="_ _0"/>ve me. But if I sho<span class="_ _0"/>w up </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with a blue jacket with yello<span class="_ _0"/>w letters that say FBI and a letter with FBI logos and a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">signature, you might be more likely to belie<span class="_ _0"/>ve what I claim.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y124 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the best real-world e<span class="_ _0"/>xamples is the story of a <span class="ff5">Candid Camera</span> episode </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y125 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">from 1963. In the episode, they ga<span class="_ _0"/>ve a man an ofcial-looking hat, a clipboard, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">a railroad crossing gate, and a sign that read “Delaw<span class="_ _0"/>are CLOSED T<span class="_ _3"/>oday<span class="_ _2"/>.<span class="_ _2"/>” He </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">then apologized to motorists at the Pennsylv<span class="_ _0"/>ania border as he informed them that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Delaw<span class="_ _0"/>are’<span class="_ _0"/>s quota had been lled and that the state w<span class="_ _0"/>as closed for just the day and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">would reopen the ne<span class="_ _0"/>xt day<span class="_ _2"/>. People were confused, but couldn’<span class="_ _0"/>t argue with the man </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with the clipboard and sign; the legitimac<span class="_ _0"/>y triggers were just too great for common </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sense, so they dro<span class="_ _0"/>ve a<span class="_ _0"/>way from Dela<span class="_ _0"/>ware!</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Legitimac<span class="_ _0"/>y triggers should be sprinkled throughout all of your social engineering </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attacks, not just in face-to-face or v<span class="_ _0"/>erbal communication. Look for opportunities </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in all of your social engineering attacks to use legitimac<span class="_ _0"/>y triggers, and frankly<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’ll typically want to use as man<span class="_ _0"/>y as practical in any attack. Using the FBI agent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example earlier<span class="_ _2"/>, you’<span class="_ _0"/>d probably be e<span class="_ _0"/>ven more likely to belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e I am an FBI agent if I </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">also hav<span class="_ _0"/>e</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y11ce ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y11cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Business cards with FBI logo and an appropriate title</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y11d0 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y11d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">An earpiece or walkie-talkie (and I communicate with another “agent”)</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y11d2 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y11d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A gun holstered on my hip or under my arm</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y11d4 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y11d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">An appropriate nondescript vehicle</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y11d6 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Keep It Simple, Stupid</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the core tenets of the <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker is KISS: Keep It Simple, Stupid. <span class="_ _0"/>This is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">especially true for social engineering. Many e<span class="_ _0"/>xperts will go into detail about specic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tactical indicators when face to face with another person. <span class="_ _2"/>Although this information </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">may be 100 percent accurate, if it’<span class="_ _2"/>s not usable or pragmatic, then ultimately<span class="_ _0"/>, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s not </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that useful to us.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In your journey to continuously impro<span class="_ _0"/>ve your social engineering skills, you will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">denitely want to e<span class="_ _0"/>xplore and learn as much as you can. Be sure to ask yourself for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the practical real-world uses for what you’<span class="_ _2"/>re learning. Keep in mind that man<span class="_ _0"/>y times, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11df ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the simplest attacks are the ones with the highest success rate.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>