<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfbf" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="bf"><div class="pc pcbf w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">168<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Don’t Get Caught</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This might seem like ob<span class="_ _0"/>vious criteria for all of your attacks, but it tak<span class="_ _0"/>es on special </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">meaning for social engineering attacks.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The core concept here is not to simply av<span class="_ _0"/>oid getting caught, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut to always lea<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">yourself a reasonable explanation or w<span class="_ _0"/>ay out of your social engineering stories that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will not alert the person being social engineered of your acti<span class="_ _0"/>vities. Not only do we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not want the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get individual to become a<span class="_ _0"/>ware of the attack, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut more importantly<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">we don’t w<span class="_ _0"/>ant the target indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual to alert additional people (such as physical or IT </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security support) of anything suspicious.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2d2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Another way to look at this is your ability to walk a<span class="_ _0"/>way<span class="_ _3"/>. It is perfectly acceptable </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to not succeed at social engineering a specic indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual at your target because you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">kno<span class="_ _0"/>w that for ev<span class="_ _0"/>ery suspicious indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual who doesn’t w<span class="_ _0"/>ant to cooperate with you, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">there are probably four more who will.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2d6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">This concept is also important, regardless of the specic method you choose. F<span class="_ _0"/>or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd67 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example, if you’<span class="_ _2"/>re social engineering someone via e-mail, be sure to leav<span class="_ _0"/>e yourself a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd68 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reasonable explanation out of the interaction if the person becomes suspicious. Let’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">say you were attempting to get a specic indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual to open an attachment. Often, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it is better to claim to be an outsider than it is to spoof the e-mail and claim to be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">someone who works for the same tar<span class="_ _0"/>get organization. If the person is suspicious and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sends a message back to you indicating they don’<span class="_ _0"/>t kno<span class="_ _0"/>w who you are and that they </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws23">won’<span class="_ _0"/>t open the e-mail attachment, you might be able to simply apologize and explain </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it was sent to the wrong person, or you ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve the wrong e-mail address, or the person </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls1b ws25">who gav<span class="_ _0"/>e you their e-mail address ga<span class="_ _0"/>ve you the wrong information.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you had sent the message from a spoofed address, a simple phone call to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">supposed sender of the spoofed e-mail will immediately indicate that something is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wrong. <span class="_ _2"/>As part of this, you should become adept at understanding when someone </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is becoming suspicious and not push that indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual too hard. Instead, simply walk </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">aw<span class="_ _0"/>ay and target a less suspicious indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remember that at this phase of attack, you should be targeting a specic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual. Since you prepared with extensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve recon on the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get organization and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven more reconnaissance on the indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual, you should feel quite comfortable and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11ec ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">condent with your story<span class="_ _2"/>. Howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, <span class="_ _2"/>APT hackers are human, and just like e<span class="_ _0"/>very </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">other human, we make mistakes. In Chapter 9, we’<span class="_ _0"/>ll discuss some techniques you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">can use to gracefully back out of a physical inltration that fails.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y11ef ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Don’t Lie</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">No<span class="_ _0"/>w this might seem like a counterintuiti<span class="_ _0"/>ve concept at rst, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut I guarantee that if </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you keep this strate<span class="_ _0"/>gy in mind when designing and ex<span class="_ _0"/>ecuting your social engineering </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attacks, you will see a measurable increase in your success rate. The strate<span class="_ _0"/>gy of not </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>