<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfc0" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="c0"><div class="pc pcc0 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x6 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 6: Spear Social Engineering<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">169</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">lying is a relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely simple one. I do not mean that you can’<span class="_ _0"/>t say anything that is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">untrue, but say as little untrue information as possible!</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">By limiting the elements of your story that are untrue, you limit the number of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">important or unnatural facts that you’ll ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e to keep track of and account for<span class="_ _2"/>. This </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is also intertwined with the other concepts of choosing what works for you and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">preparation. If you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve been in a specic eld for the past ten years, choose a story </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that will allo<span class="_ _0"/>w you to use this information since it is familiar and natural to you.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if you’<span class="_ _0"/>re going to break into an ofce b<span class="_ _0"/>uilding, claiming to be an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y124 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">electrician, but you don’<span class="_ _0"/>t kno<span class="_ _0"/>w the rst thing about po<span class="_ _0"/>wer cabling, this is probably </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y125 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not the right choice for you. If, ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve work<span class="_ _0"/>ed in IT for ten years, then </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">perhaps it’<span class="_ _2"/>s smarter to simply say you’<span class="_ _0"/>re there to x a printer or install a wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">access point. This w<span class="_ _0"/>ay<span class="_ _2"/>, if you are questioned, you won’t be disco<span class="_ _0"/>vered after a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">token technical questions.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y39c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In this case, by choosing something you’<span class="_ _2"/>re already familiar with, in a way<span class="_ _2"/>, you’<span class="_ _0"/>re </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not really lying. Sure, maybe you weren’t actually hired le<span class="_ _0"/>gitimately to x a printer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or install a wireless access point, but at least you’<span class="_ _0"/>ll hav<span class="_ _0"/>e no problem playing the part. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">And you’<span class="_ _2"/>re probably already familiar with the con<span class="_ _0"/>versations and types of objections </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or questions you might recei<span class="_ _0"/>ve.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Limiting the number of untrue elements in your attack is a critical strategy<span class="_ _3"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many people think that con-men and social engineers perform their wizardry by </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">architecting complex lies with a lot of details, lik<span class="_ _0"/>e a nov<span class="_ _0"/>elist weaving a story<span class="_ _2"/>, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve found that this is not only unnecessary<span class="_ _2"/>, it also can actually be counterproductiv<span class="_ _0"/>e.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In addition, there is another important element to the strategy of not lying: <span class="_ _0"/>When </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you must lie, belie<span class="_ _0"/>ve your lie. <span class="_ _0"/>This concept is part of the art of social engineering, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and the mastery of it only comes with experience. <span class="_ _0"/>This concept is especially true for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">social engineering attacks that require you to think on your feet, such as phone calls </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and face-to-face interaction.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When you don’t belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e your own lie, you will act and respond with indicators </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11fb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that something is wrong. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou may e<span class="_ _0"/>ventually nd yourself stumbling ov<span class="_ _0"/>er your o<span class="_ _0"/>wn </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11fc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">story<span class="_ _2"/>, and your target will be much more likely to identify that something just isn’<span class="_ _0"/>t </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11fd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">right. These indicators could be minor and only present themselv<span class="_ _0"/>es in subtle ways, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11fe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">such as a change in the tone of your voice, your body language, or your timing.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This is also an important detail because you can’t e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er let yourself fall into the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1200 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">trap of thinking that your target indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual is just another stupid or gullible person. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1201 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Because stupid and gullible people will surprise you when they just don’<span class="_ _0"/>t feel right </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1202 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in their gut about something about you or your story and decide to tell someone in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1203 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security about it.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1204 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In my career<span class="_ _0"/>, I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve attempted impersonations of many dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent professionals—</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1205 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">doctors, lawyers, repairmen. <span class="_ _0"/>The attacks where I hav<span class="_ _0"/>e the greatest success (or at </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1206 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">least the most stress-free success) are the ones where I am intimately familiar with </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>