<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfc5" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="c5"><div class="pc pcc5 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">174<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Personality T<span class="_ _3"/>ypes</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e won’t belabor the point here, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut you should be aware of some of the most basic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">personality types and traits. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou need to understand these personality types to be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e in all of the pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously mentioned strategies and tactics. <span class="_ _0"/>The follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are not personality archetypes you’ll nd in a colle<span class="_ _0"/>ge textbook, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut are based on </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the observ<span class="_ _0"/>ations I’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e made after many years of social engineering engagements </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y52f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and penetration testing. By understanding the types of indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals you’<span class="_ _0"/>re lik<span class="_ _0"/>ely to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y530 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">encounter<span class="_ _0"/>, you can ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w tactics specic to that type ready to use.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1276 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Friendly</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1277 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Friendly is the simplest and most accurate way to describe some people. <span class="_ _0"/>These </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1278 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people are easy to spot. The<span class="_ _0"/>y will most likely be smiling, ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a b<span class="_ _0"/>ubbly or outgoing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1279 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">personality<span class="_ _2"/>, or otherwise just seem generally happy to help another person. These are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y127a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the people you either see smiling in person or you can hear them smiling ov<span class="_ _0"/>er the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y127b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">phone; yes, you can literally hear them smile ov<span class="_ _0"/>er the phone. Friendly people tend </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y127c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to make the best tar<span class="_ _0"/>gets for a social engineer<span class="_ _2"/>. They are prime tar<span class="_ _0"/>gets for one reason: </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y127d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">They tend be v<span class="_ _0"/>ery trusting of other people. This trust will manifest itself in them </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y127e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">being do<span class="_ _0"/>wnright helpful to us.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y127f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou should note that I am not describing only a personality trait here; instead, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1280 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I’m referring to the denition of a specic class of target. Indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals can still be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1281 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“friendly” or otherwise act amicably<span class="_ _2"/>, but might not fall into this cate<span class="_ _0"/>gory<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1282 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou should also note that friendly does not mean they are necessarily an extro<span class="_ _0"/>vert. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1283 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I hav<span class="_ _0"/>e met people who fall into this cate<span class="_ _0"/>gory who are not actually extro<span class="_ _0"/>verts. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1284 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Understand that although being friendly makes these indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals good targets, it does </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1285 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not in any w<span class="_ _0"/>ay imply that they are stupid. On the contrary<span class="_ _2"/>, many friendly people are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1286 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">smart and intelligent—being friendly is just a core part of their personality<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1287 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Friendly people tend to respond best to other friendly people. These people also </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1288 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">respond to authority<span class="_ _2"/>, but the<span class="_ _0"/>y respond much better to friendly authority than to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1289 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">dominating authority<span class="_ _2"/>. These are the types of people you can “schmooze,<span class="_ _3"/>” although </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y128a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that is often unnecessary<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y128b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">If you get a negati<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e response from a friendly personality type, that is a bad </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y128c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">thing, and you should probably bo<span class="_ _0"/>w out of that interaction. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y128d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">make a friendly tar<span class="_ _0"/>get suspicious, you will see in obvious signs that the<span class="_ _0"/>y are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y128e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">uncomfortable—they will hesitate when responding, and you will see or hear them </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y128f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">trying to process your story<span class="_ _2"/>.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>