<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfc6" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="c6"><div class="pc pcc6 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x6 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 6: Spear Social Engineering<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">175</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y328 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _0"/>orker Bees</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y329 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>orker bees are easy to spot as well. If you’<span class="_ _0"/>re walking do<span class="_ _0"/>wn a hall and the person </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’<span class="_ _2"/>re passing avoids e<span class="_ _0"/>ye contact, you may hav<span class="_ _0"/>e just passed a work<span class="_ _0"/>er bee. These </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people are tuned into their world, their o<span class="_ _0"/>wn tasks, and getting their work done. <span class="_ _0"/>They </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">may tend to still hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a friendly demeanor and may be trusting, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut will not go out of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">their way to be helpful.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y32e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou can take the tactic of helping these people av<span class="_ _0"/>oid personal “pain” or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“annoyances.<span class="_ _3"/>” For example, one common approach is to call a person and tell them </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y330 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">there is an issue on your end that will cause them a big headache, such as a “server </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y331 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">failure” that will mean the<span class="_ _0"/>y won’t ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e access to their les, and the worker bee can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y332 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">speed up the restoration of the les if they gi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e you their password.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y333 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This specic example has been used before, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut you can get creati<span class="_ _0"/>ve. If you think </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y364 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’<span class="_ _2"/>re dealing with a worker bee, feel free to create a problem for them that they can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y365 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">remediate by helping you with your goal, whether that’<span class="_ _2"/>s revealing condential data, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y366 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">running our backdoor<span class="_ _0"/>, etc. F<span class="_ _0"/>or example, if you can perform a denial of service (DoS) </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y337 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of their wireless connection and then tell them you can x the issue, you may be able </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y338 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to gain credibility and credentials.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1290 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Again, don’t confuse w<span class="_ _0"/>orker bee to mean only an employee who is a nameless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1291 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">cog in the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. Even authorities can e<span class="_ _0"/>xhibit the work<span class="_ _0"/>er bee mentality<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y33b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although some worker bees might be some type of authority gure, more often than </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y33c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not, these indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals might not believ<span class="_ _0"/>e they e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en hav<span class="_ _0"/>e authority to stop someone </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1292 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and confront them.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1293 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Suspicious</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1294 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Some people are naturally suspicious of <span class="ff5">everything<span class="_ _0"/>.<span class="ff4"> <span class="_ _2"/>Although it’<span class="_ _0"/>s still possible to </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1295 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">social engineer these people, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s typically not worth the risk of raising any further </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1296 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">suspicions.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1297 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The real trick is to correctly identify an indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual as the suspicious type and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1298 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to not mistake token or obligatory questions as making someone a suspicious </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1299 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual. Many times, an indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual will ask a single question that may appear as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y129a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">if they are suspicious, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut really<span class="_ _2"/>, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s just a token question they’<span class="_ _2"/>re asking almost out </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y129b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">of obligation. <span class="_ _2"/>As long as you have a reasonable answer to their tok<span class="_ _0"/>en question, there </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y129c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">won’<span class="_ _0"/>t be an issue. It’<span class="_ _2"/>s as if you set their mind at ease. Even if they kne<span class="_ _0"/>w it was a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y129d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws20">simple question that could easily be answered fraudulently<span class="_ _2"/>, you’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e acted the way you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y129e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“should”, and so hav<span class="_ _0"/>e they<span class="_ _3"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y129f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals who are truly suspicious types will hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a much more interrogating </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tone or a prickly demeanor<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _2"/>Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou’ll get the sense that they understand the<span class="_ _0"/>y’<span class="_ _0"/>re being </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">confrontational, but the<span class="_ _0"/>y don’t care if it mak<span class="_ _0"/>es you feel uncomfortable. On the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>