<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfc7" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="c7"><div class="pc pcc7 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">176<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">other hand, a person who is just gi<span class="_ _0"/>ving token resistance will seem uncomfortable </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">themselves when asking what may sound lik<span class="_ _0"/>e confrontational questions and might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">literally apologize for this.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y12a2 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Road Blocks</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Road blocks are so named because you are unlikely to get an<span class="_ _0"/>ywhere with these types </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of people. The<span class="_ _0"/>y will take issue with an<span class="_ _0"/>yone’<span class="_ _2"/>s story<span class="_ _0"/>, e<span class="_ _0"/>ven during e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>eryday tasks with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">legitimate people. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y times, if you encounter a road block who is questioning </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">your story it’<span class="_ _2"/>s not even that the<span class="_ _0"/>y are necessarily suspicious of you or your story—it </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y215 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is just their modus operandi.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y216 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Road blocks are actually rare, and I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve only had to deal with them a handful of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">times, but when you meet one, you will kno<span class="_ _0"/>w it. In my e<span class="_ _0"/>xperience, these tend to be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people with authority complex<span class="_ _0"/>es, and ironically if not unsurprisingly<span class="_ _2"/>, these are often </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people without much authority<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although in my opinion, the right story at the right time is capable of social </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">engineering anyone, if you encounter a road block, your best bet is most lik<span class="_ _0"/>ely to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">gracefully back out of your interaction and identify an easier target.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y12a3 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Authorities</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There has been a great deal of cov<span class="_ _0"/>erage on authorities and ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to social engineer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">them, and in my opinion, authorities can be some of the absolute best and easiest </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">targets. I ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve found tw<span class="_ _0"/>o general types of authorities: high-le<span class="_ _0"/>vel authorities and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mid-le<span class="_ _0"/>vel authorities.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y12a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The high-le<span class="_ _0"/>vel authorities are the CEO types. <span class="_ _0"/>They can seem curt or uninterested </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in things outside their area of expertise. <span class="_ _0"/>This uninterested attitude can make them </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12aa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">appear almost obli<span class="_ _0"/>vious to the possibility of social engineering attacks, which can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12ab ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">make them easy to social engineer<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y12ac ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">The mid-le<span class="_ _0"/>vel authorities are typically more like managers of departments or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12ad ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">specic areas. These authority types can be some<span class="_ _0"/>what more difcult to social </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12ae ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">engineer directly<span class="_ _2"/>, depending on the story<span class="_ _2"/>. These people tend to be more hands-on and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12af ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">aw<span class="_ _0"/>are of what is proper protocol in their domain. Thus, you should a<span class="_ _0"/>void attempting </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">to social engineer these people with anything that directly confronts their authority<span class="_ _3"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, attempting to social engineer the head of physical security by stating </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls10 ws16">you are allo<span class="_ _0"/>wed to bypass certain physical security checkpoints is not a good route.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y12b3 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws16">Events</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Mentioning e<span class="_ _0"/>vents of importance to your tar<span class="_ _0"/>get, especially during phishing, can be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12b5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">an extremely ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve tactic in eliciting a response or b<span class="_ _0"/>uilding trust. <span class="_ _0"/>This is actually </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12b6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a common method used by cyber<span class="_ _0"/>-criminals when using e-mail phishing and the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>