<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfc9" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="c9"><div class="pc pcc9 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">178<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">name, and referring to specic areas of the application correctly are all triggers that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you are an insider and are already authorized to access that data.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y48c ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Insider Information</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Utilizing the tactic of insider information is slightly dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent from telling the target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">what they kno<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>. Instead of simply regur<span class="_ _0"/>gitating information that is specic to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual or target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization, you should demonstrate any kno<span class="_ _0"/>wledge that sho<span class="_ _0"/>ws </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">you are an insider of the “organizational club<span class="_ _2"/>.<span class="_ _2"/>”</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y490 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou can show that you’<span class="_ _2"/>re an insider by using industry-standard lingo or acronyms, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">company-specic phrases, or e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en just by complaining about the same things. For </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y5ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example, in the same w<span class="_ _0"/>ay that help desk groups will complain about end users or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y493 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nurses might complain about patients, you can establish a common ground and sho<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y494 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the person you’<span class="_ _2"/>re speaking with that you are similar or part of the same “club.<span class="_ _3"/>”</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y12d6 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Name Dropping</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12d7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the best ways of demonstrating insider information is the age-old practice </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of name dropping—that is, using someone’<span class="_ _2"/>s name who is familiar to the target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual to add credibility to your story<span class="_ _2"/>. The tactic that I ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve had the most success </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with has been to use someone with more authority than the person I was speaking </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, mentioning the president’<span class="_ _2"/>s name, CEO’<span class="_ _0"/>s name, or head of IT to a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">secretary or lo<span class="_ _0"/>wer-le<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>el employee.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y12dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I hav<span class="_ _0"/>e used this so many times and so simply that it is denitely a permanent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tactic in my bag. I hav<span class="_ _0"/>e made statements like “John Smith hired me to come do this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12df ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">today” or “John Smith told me to call you.<span class="_ _2"/>” If you’<span class="_ _0"/>re going to name drop, ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12e0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you need to be careful ho<span class="_ _0"/>w you do it. If you go ov<span class="_ _0"/>erboard and claim to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a closer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12e1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">relationship (whether personal or professional) with the person you are referencing, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12e2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">then you might get caught if you don’t kno<span class="_ _0"/>w that person well enough to answer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y34f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">potential questions.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y12e3 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The Right T<span class="_ _3"/>actic</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12e4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many people get caught up in analyzing all the options for ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to approach a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">specic social engineering task. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou could spend a year analyzing all of the possible </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">options for ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to approach and interact with your target. Some of the most ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y12e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">approaches include</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y12e8 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 h2c y12e9 ff3 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A<span class="_ _2"/>uthority<span class="_ _a"> </span><span class="ff4">The use of authority can be an easy one—simply stating or </span></div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y12ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">inferring that your target should help you because you ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve authority o<span class="_ _0"/>ver them </div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y12eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">at some le<span class="_ _0"/>vel.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>