<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfcd" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="cd"><div class="pc pccd w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">182<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Building the Stor<span class="_ _1"/>y</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Choosing the correct story to tell your target user that will allo<span class="_ _0"/>w you to b<span class="_ _0"/>uild rapport </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and get to the point that they will interact with your phishing website or install the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">software you send is paramount. Don’<span class="_ _0"/>t get tied down by con<span class="_ _2"/>vention either; we’ll </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">discuss a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w good possibilities here, but as al<span class="_ _0"/>ways, think outside the box and answer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">just one question: “What story is most likely to elicit the response I need from this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y52f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">specic user?” If you can craft your story that way<span class="_ _2"/>, you will be on the right path. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y530 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Examples of stories that work well in man<span class="_ _0"/>y contexts include</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y134d ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y134e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou work with a partner organization, sister compan<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>, or parent company<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y134f ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws16">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1350 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou are a salesperson for an external organization and you’<span class="_ _2"/>d like to of<span class="_ _0"/>fer a free </div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1351 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">trial of your software.</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1352 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1353 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou think they would be interested in joining your group with a common </div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1354 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">interest or hobby<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1355 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1356 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>our company would like feedback on some trial softw<span class="_ _0"/>are for the target user’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1357 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">industry and is willing to pay for the feedback.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1358 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">If you think a nancial incenti<span class="_ _0"/>ve will get the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get user to perform the actions you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1359 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws20">require, you could actually send them a legitimate prepaid gift card. If all it tak<span class="_ _0"/>es is $50 </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y135a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">to $100 to get the information you need, chances are that’<span class="_ _2"/>s a really good price to pay<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y135b ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Phishing W<span class="_ _0"/>ebsite T<span class="_ _2"/>actics</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y135c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The traditional approach to using a website as part of a spear-phishing attack </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y135d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olves cop<span class="_ _0"/>ying an existing website and directing the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get user to the fraudulent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y135e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">site. The site will look e<span class="_ _0"/>xactly like a le<span class="_ _0"/>gitimate website (complete with legitimac<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y135f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">triggers) that will collect the credentials the user enters into the website. This </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1360 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">traditional approach to phishing websites can be extremely ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut is only </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1361 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">one of a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w useful methods av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable to the <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _2"/>. Many tools are av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1362 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to automate copying of a website—some are specically designed to create a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1363 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">phishing website. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, you can use the Social Engineering T<span class="_ _3"/>oolkit’<span class="_ _2"/>s Site </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1364 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Cloner ability to automatically copy an e<span class="_ _0"/>xisting website and congure it to harvest </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1365 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">credentials. In my experience, though, it is much better and more consistent to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1366 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">manually copy or create the phishing website.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1367 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The easiest way to copy the website is to vie<span class="_ _0"/>w the source code of the login </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1368 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">page, copy the source into a te<span class="_ _0"/>xt editor<span class="_ _0"/>, sa<span class="_ _0"/>ve the le locally<span class="_ _2"/>, and adjust the source </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1369 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as necessary<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can use the “sav<span class="_ _0"/>e as” functionality of your browser<span class="_ _2"/>, which will </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>