<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfd8" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="d8"><div class="pc pcd8 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x6 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 6: Spear Social Engineering<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">193</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of classic cars seems like an ob<span class="_ _0"/>vious choice. If the person is a self-professed home </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cook, then maybe a forum to submit, share, and rate recipes would be a good choice.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e can create the website and give it the appearance of a public forum—b<span class="_ _0"/>ut e<span class="_ _0"/>ven </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">better<span class="_ _0"/>, what if the forum is pri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ate, exclusi<span class="_ _0"/>ve, or by in<span class="_ _2"/>vitation only? If we e-mail </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">our target user and tell them a member of the pri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ate forum suggested they might be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">interested in joining this exclusi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e group, you can almost be guaranteed that most </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people would be interested. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e can start by e-mailing the user that they ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve been </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in<span class="_ _0"/>vited to participate in a pri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ate online forum to discuss classic cars. Urge the user </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to check out the forum’<span class="_ _2"/>s home page and join the forum if they are interested. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou’ll </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">thus want to make the home page as appealing as possible with as much for<span class="_ _0"/>ged </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">praise as practical.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you’<span class="_ _2"/>re worried about explaining to the end user ho<span class="_ _0"/>w you receiv<span class="_ _0"/>ed their e-mail </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">address or who suggested they join the group, then you’<span class="_ _2"/>re worrying about the wrong </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">piece. First, if you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve chosen the right name, the user won’t be able to resist joining </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the website. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if the target user is located in Idaho, then re<span class="_ _0"/>gistering a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">domain “idahocustomcarlov<span class="_ _0"/>ers.com” is probably a good choice. <span class="_ _2"/>At that point, the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">user probably wouldn’<span class="_ _0"/>t care if the e-mail came from “admin, “forums,<span class="_ _2"/>” or ev<span class="_ _0"/>en </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1488 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“forum-bot.<span class="_ _2"/>” Second, you could always be more “honest” and con<span class="_ _2"/>vey directly or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1489 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">indirectly that many users in the area are being informed of the site based on some </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">type of market data.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y57b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>o collect the information from the user during the registration process, we can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">create our o<span class="_ _0"/>wn simple HTML form and PHP page to sav<span class="_ _0"/>e the data, or we can use an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">existing web forum such as phpBB. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e would simply want to modify the function </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that sav<span class="_ _0"/>es the user’<span class="_ _2"/>s password so that it is stored in cleartext rather than being </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">encrypted. Once the user has created the account, they can be informed that all user </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">requests to join the site must be approv<span class="_ _0"/>ed by a site administrator<span class="_ _2"/>. Luckily for us, this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">feature is built into man<span class="_ _0"/>y web forum systems. Thus, the user will ne<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er notice that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1490 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the forum doesn’t actually ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve an<span class="_ _0"/>y content, and his request to join the website can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1491 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">slip into a black hole of forgotten dreams.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1492 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Our other option is to use an existing w<span class="_ _0"/>atering hole, either one we know the user </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1493 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is already registered at or one we belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e they would be lik<span class="_ _0"/>ely to register at. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1494 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">do this with a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w goals in mind. First, if the website has vulnerabilities of its own, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1495 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we could potentially compromise it and obtain any information stored on the user<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1496 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This, of course, is probably not the most likely scenario, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut frankly many websites </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1497 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">(especially forums) could easily be the (extremely) lo<span class="_ _0"/>w-hanging fruit.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1498 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, directly e<span class="_ _0"/>xploiting the existing watering hole isn’<span class="_ _0"/>t our only option </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y586 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for using the system to our adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if we can identify the user </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y587 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls1a ws0">on<span class="_ _1"/> the forum, we can simply use the forum as a trust building tool to social engineer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y588 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the user further<span class="_ _2"/>. If we post a response to a message they hav<span class="_ _0"/>e left with a link to a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1499 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">related article or tool, the user might be likely to click the link. If you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve posted a </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>