<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf16" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="16"><div class="pc pc16 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x2a h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Introduction<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">xxi</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Chapter 6 begins with an in-depth discussion of strate<span class="_ _0"/>gic and tactical components </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e social engineering. This is follo<span class="_ _0"/>wed by tactical e<span class="_ _0"/>xamples of spear </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">phishing a target through remote technical means such as e-mail and b<span class="_ _0"/>uilding </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e phishing websites.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Chapter 7 mov<span class="_ _0"/>es on to targeting remote users at their homes and other locations. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This chapter focuses primarily on exploiting wireless vulnerabilities that can allo<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">us to easily and anonymously e<span class="_ _0"/>xploit these users. This includes tar<span class="_ _0"/>geting wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">networks and vulnerabilities, as well as creating the most ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve rogue access </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">points and exploiting wireless clients and communications.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y162 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Chapter 8 demonstrates ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to create and use traditional audio, video, and GPS </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y163 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bugs to monitor k<span class="_ _0"/>ey locations and indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals. <span class="_ _0"/>This is followed by details on ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">create and program next-generation hardw<span class="_ _0"/>are-based backdoors such as the T<span class="_ _3"/>eensy </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">de<span class="_ _0"/>vice, as well as backdoored hardware such as laptops and smart phones.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Chapter 9 goes in depth into circumventing man<span class="_ _0"/>y of the most common physical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y167 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">security controls and physically inltrating target locations. Copious e<span class="_ _0"/>xamples and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y168 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">useable tools and techniques are cov<span class="_ _0"/>ered in detail.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y169 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Finally<span class="_ _2"/>, Chapter 10 closes with a discussion of the types of software backdoors </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that can be used throughout all of the pre<span class="_ _0"/>vious attack phases to maximize the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>eness of any attack. <span class="_ _0"/>This includes code examples as well as functionality that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">may seem some<span class="_ _0"/>what low tech b<span class="_ _0"/>ut will pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide great results.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>