<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfea" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="ea"><div class="pc pcea w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xa3 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 7: Phase III: Remote T<span class="_ _0"/>argeting<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">211</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">most likely won’<span class="_ _0"/>t implement the <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>ired Equi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>alent Pri<span class="_ _0"/>vac<span class="_ _0"/>y (WEP) protocol, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they’<span class="_ _0"/>ll still be susceptible to snifng of unencrypted trafc and might ev<span class="_ _0"/>en be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">vulnerable to spoofed management trafc, rogue de<span class="_ _0"/>vices, and others.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One wireless tool in particular can prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to be very useful for us—a hardw<span class="_ _0"/>are-</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">based wireless access point. Of course, we can always use a re<span class="_ _0"/>gular access point, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">such as a Linksys <span class="_ _0"/>WR<span class="_ _2"/>T54G. Howe<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, some extremely small access points are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">perfect options for our purposes. Obviously<span class="_ _3"/>, one of the main benets of using a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hardware-based access point is that it will be much easier to conceal, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut it will also </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">require far less po<span class="_ _0"/>wer than a full-blo<span class="_ _0"/>wn laptop. T<span class="_ _3"/>wo good options include the <span class="_ _2"/>Alfa </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">AP121U and the TP-Link <span class="_ _0"/>TL-WR703N.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">These types of access points (the Linksys <span class="_ _0"/>WR<span class="_ _2"/>T54G, <span class="_ _0"/>Alfa <span class="_ _2"/>AP121U, and TP-Link </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y978 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">TL-WR703N) allo<span class="_ _0"/>w us to run the OpenWrt rmware, which gi<span class="_ _0"/>ves us a lot of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y979 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">capabilities. OpenWrt is a Linux kernel and BusyBox shell on which we can install </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">additional packages. Ne<span class="_ _0"/>w mini-access points are being released on a regular basis. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Be sure to do some Google searching to identify a portable access point that will t </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">your specic needs.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y39f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Rather than relying on a limited embedded de<span class="_ _0"/>vice, we can make our o<span class="_ _0"/>wn </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">full-blo<span class="_ _0"/>wn Linux access point using a microcomputer<span class="_ _0"/>. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y good lo<span class="_ _0"/>w-priced </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">microcomputers are currently av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable. Unlik<span class="_ _0"/>e the micro-access points, these are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">full-blo<span class="_ _0"/>wn computers that can run a full-blown Linux distrib<span class="_ _0"/>ution that are also </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extremely small. <span class="_ _0"/>This will gi<span class="_ _0"/>ve us all of the features needed and allo<span class="_ _0"/>w us to run </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">all of the tools we will cov<span class="_ _0"/>er in this chapter<span class="_ _2"/>. Some perfect examples include the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Raspberry Pi and the Guru Plug. The Raspberry Pi is sho<span class="_ _0"/>wn in Figure 7-3. <span class="_ _0"/>These </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">microcomputers can cost as little as $50 and typically won’<span class="_ _0"/>t go much higher than </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">$150, making them perfect for our uses.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When we use these types of small de<span class="_ _0"/>vices, we can make them extremely portable </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">by using an external battery pack. More on these de<span class="_ _0"/>vices, minicomputers, and other </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3aa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">useful hardware de<span class="_ _0"/>vices in the next chapter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y162c ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Wireless Antennas</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the most important options in the card you choose will not only be the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ad ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">quality of the included antenna, but also the ability for the card to use an e<span class="_ _0"/>xternal </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">antenna. It’<span class="_ _2"/>s important to understand that a wireless antenna on one device actually </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">improv<span class="_ _0"/>es both transmission and reception of radiofrequency (RF) signals! <span class="_ _0"/>The gain </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1630 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">provided by an antenna is measured in dBi, or decibels isotropic. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>ith antenna gain, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1631 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it’<span class="_ _2"/>s typically as simple as “more is better,<span class="_ _3"/>” but you also need to take the antenna’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1632 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">radiation pattern into consideration for your specic needs.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1633 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although there are many dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent types of antennas, there are two basic choices </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1634 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for us to consider: directional antennas and omnidirectional antennas. Directional </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>