<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfec" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="ec"><div class="pc pcec w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xa3 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 7: Phase III: Remote T<span class="_ _0"/>argeting<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">213</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It should be obvious that directional antennas radiate in a more concentrated </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">beam to<span class="_ _0"/>ward a specic direction. The actual width and distance of the “beam” will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">be dependent on the antenna and its quality<span class="_ _2"/>. Thus, this type of antenna is typically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">used for point-to-point links, for example, between tw<span class="_ _0"/>o access points or between </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">our client and an access point. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>ith directional antennas, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s not always as simple </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as pointing directly at the target lik<span class="_ _0"/>e you would if you were shooting a gun. <span class="_ _0"/>The </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">radiation pattern can be a little ske<span class="_ _0"/>wed to one side, so be sure to test dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent angles.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When war dri<span class="_ _0"/>ving, the best option can actually be to use both omnidirectional and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">directional antennas to be sure you’<span class="_ _2"/>re getting the best coverage possible. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou don’t </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven necessarily need two de<span class="_ _0"/>vices; you could simply ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve tw<span class="_ _0"/>o separate adapters on </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">one laptop.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you had to choose only one antenna type, I’<span class="_ _2"/>d typically say go with an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">omnidirectional antenna as long as you can get reasonably close to where you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">belie<span class="_ _0"/>ve wireless access points or clients will be. If you think distance will be an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">issue, go with a directional antenna. <span class="_ _2"/>As an <span class="_ _0"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _2"/>, you should have at least </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">one omnidirectional and one directional antenna, which will serve us well during </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent steps in this phase of attack.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1640 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Connection T<span class="_ _3"/>ype</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1641 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls1a ws0">The other important feature of the wireless card we’ll ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve to consider is the connection </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1642 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls1a ws0">type for an upgraded antenna. Most external wireless cards (and most consumer<span class="_ _0"/>-grade </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1643 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls1a ws0">access points) will come with a “rubber ducky” antenna, which is typically just a small, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1644 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls25 ws16">lo<span class="_ _0"/>w-gain omnidirectional antenna like the one on the <span class="_ _2"/>Alfa card in Figure 7-2.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1645 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Connecting an antenna to an access point or wireless card is as simple as ensuring </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1646 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the connector type is the same. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can nd adapters to go between two dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1647 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">connector types, but these can pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide a little loss. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou should also be aw<span class="_ _0"/>are that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1648 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the longer the cable from the antenna to the wireless radio, the more loss. Thus, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1649 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the increase in signal strength from a good antenna can actually be lost if you use a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">lengthy or faulty cable to connect the antenna to your card. If your card uses a USB </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cable, the length of the USB cable will not af<span class="_ _0"/>fect the strength of the signal from the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">antenna, within the limits of USB capabilities, of course. So if you nd you need </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w extra feet for the perfect setup, then using a longer USB cable rather than a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">longer antenna cable is probably the way to go.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y164f ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Power</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1650 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The po<span class="_ _0"/>wer output of the card is also an important factor<span class="_ _2"/>. Power is typically measured </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1651 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">in dBm or watts. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou should note, though, that unlike using an antenna, the gain </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1652 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">provided by increasing po<span class="_ _0"/>wer is only one way<span class="_ _3"/>, meaning it only increases your </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>