<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pff2" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="f2"><div class="pc pcf2 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xa3 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 7: Phase III: Remote T<span class="_ _0"/>argeting<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">219</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wireless network. <span class="_ _0"/>The second phase is to specically target areas of interest and to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">identify specics related to the wireless network and its wireless clients. K<span class="_ _0"/>eep in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mind that just because we might not nd any acti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e wireless networks at our target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization (which is e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely unlikely b<span class="_ _0"/>ut still possible), we might still be able </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to nd and exploit wireless vulnerabilities, specically within wireless-enabled </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">client de<span class="_ _0"/>vices such as laptops or phones. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s not uncommon for an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y213 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">employee to ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a laptop the<span class="_ _0"/>y bring home. Even though this laptop may or may not </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1654 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">be connected to a wireless network at the employee’<span class="_ _2"/>s home, if the wireless network </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">card is enabled, it will most likely be constantly broadcasting its presence. <span class="_ _0"/>This is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">an extremely important f<span class="_ _0"/>act to understand, so I’ll repeat it! Even when there is no </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wireless network at a facility<span class="_ _3"/>, a wireless client may still be vulnerable. In fact, most </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of the time, these types of wireless client de<span class="_ _0"/>vices will be more valuable for us to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">compromise than a wireless network.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y16f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Before we get started, let’<span class="_ _2"/>s revie<span class="_ _0"/>w the technical ways of identifying wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16f9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">networks. <span class="_ _0"/>There are two basic ways to do this: through capturing beacon frames </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and through probe request/response. <span class="_ _2"/>A probe request is a special frame sent from </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16fb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a wireless station to identify either a particular wireless network or all wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16fc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">networks—essentially<span class="_ _2"/>, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s a broadcast that attempts to identify any wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16fd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">networks. <span class="_ _2"/>A wireless client or access point can then respond with a probe response </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16fe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that includes the network name, capabilities, and supported data rates of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">responding de<span class="_ _0"/>vice. Since probe requests require our stations to send packets, which </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1700 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can be recorded and alerted on, we will typically av<span class="_ _0"/>oid the use of them. In fact, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1701 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">common signature within wireless monitoring systems to log and alert client de<span class="_ _0"/>vices </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1702 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that probe for wireless networks b<span class="_ _0"/>ut ne<span class="_ _0"/>ver join a wireless network. F<span class="_ _0"/>ollo<span class="_ _0"/>wing is an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1703 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example of a Kismet message indicating just that:</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y1704 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ALERT Thu Feb 27 10:37:10 2014 Suspicious client 00:21:6a:34:05:c7 - </div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y1705 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">probing networks but never participating.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1706 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Beacon frames are sent by access points to periodically announce the existence </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1707 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and capabilities of the wireless network, such as network name (SSID), data rates, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1708 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">timing, etc. Beacon frames are also sent by client de<span class="_ _0"/>vices when participating in an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1709 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ad hoc wireless network, also called an independent basic service set (IBSS). Most </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y170a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">access points will send around ten beacons per second! That mak<span class="_ _0"/>es discov<span class="_ _0"/>ering their </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y170b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">existence a relati<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ely easy task by simply monitoring the airwa<span class="_ _0"/>ves. <span class="_ _0"/>The difference </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y170c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">between probe requests and beacon frames is sho<span class="_ _0"/>wn in Figure 7-5.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y170d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Some administrators congure their access points to not include the network </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y170e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">name (SSID) in their beacon frames. This is typically referred to as “SSID cloaking.<span class="_ _3"/>” </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y170f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many administrators enable SSID cloaking, thinking it will pre<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ent people from </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1710 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">kno<span class="_ _0"/>wing their network exists, thus restricting access to only clients that ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e been </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1711 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">manually congured with the SSID. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, when a v<span class="_ _0"/>alid client associates to </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>