<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf19" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="19"><div class="pc pc19 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x2f h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">2<span class="_ _c"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _7"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x24 h1b y171 ff3 fsd fc4 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y</div><div class="t m0 x30 hd y172 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ou didn’t realize it, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut when you decided to use the Internet, a computer<span class="_ _0"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x30 hd y173 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that ne<span class="_ _0"/>w cell phone, ev<span class="_ _0"/>en Facebook and <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _3"/>witter<span class="_ _0"/>, you joined a war<span class="_ _2"/>. Whether </div><div class="t m0 x30 hd y174 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you kno<span class="_ _0"/>w it or not, this is war and it’<span class="_ _2"/>s making us all soldiers. Some of us </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y175 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are peasants with pitchforks, and others are secret agents with sniper ries and atom </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y176 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bombs<span class="fs5">.</span></div><div class="t m0 x32 hd y177 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In the past, when a bank had to account for security<span class="_ _2"/>, they only had to worry about </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y178 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical threats and tangible people. No<span class="_ _0"/>wadays, <span class="_ _2"/>American banks are being attacked </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y179 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">by intruders from countries with unfamiliar names who utilize attacks that e<span class="_ _0"/>xist only </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y17a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">digitally<span class="_ _2"/>, in electricity<span class="_ _2"/>, transistors, 1’<span class="_ _0"/>s and 0’<span class="_ _2"/>s. Businesses as old as dirt hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to deal </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y17b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with twenty-rst century in<span class="_ _0"/>visible, ethereal, and complicated threats. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>w well do </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y17c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you think they’<span class="_ _2"/>re holding up? Many systems and controls are a<span class="_ _0"/>vailable to deal with </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y17d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical threats, including the law<span class="_ _3"/>. In the past, if you were caught trying to rob a </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y17e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">bank, you could spend serious time in prison, as there are laws that mak<span class="_ _0"/>e this illegal. </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y17f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Unfortunately<span class="_ _2"/>, <span class="_ _0"/>American la<span class="_ _0"/>w is struggling to deal with this constant barrage of </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y180 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">foreign attackers. In addition, the Internet makes it possible for an attack<span class="_ _0"/>er to appear </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y181 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to originate from any country he wishes.</div><div class="t m0 x32 hd y182 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In the modern digital era, e<span class="_ _0"/>veryone connected to the Internet is under constant </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y183 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attack, both businesses and home users. Is there a purpose to this barrage of attacks? </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y184 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many times, the people compromised are just random victims of criminals who w<span class="_ _0"/>ant </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y185 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to steal as much data as possible, package it up, and sell it to the highest bidder<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x32 hd y186 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“But I don’t ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve an<span class="_ _0"/>y data that’<span class="_ _2"/>s valuable to a criminal.<span class="_ _3"/>” This is such a common </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y187 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">statement from people who don’t understand the threats, their capabilities, or their </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y188 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">moti<span class="_ _0"/>ves. Of course, a criminal doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t really care about your apple pie recipe or your </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y189 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">v<span class="_ _0"/>acation pictures, but e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en with zero data, your computer <span class="ff5">r<span class="_ _0"/>esour<span class="_ _0"/>ces<span class="ff4"> are still v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y18a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to an attacker<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>A compromised computer represents another processor to attempt to </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y18b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">crack passwords, send spam e-mail, or another host to help knock do<span class="_ _0"/>wn a target in a </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y18c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack.</div><div class="t m0 x32 hd y18d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This world has become a playground for<span class="ff5"> anyone</span> who understands technology and </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y18e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is willing to bend the rules. By manipulating technology or people in unanticipated </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y18f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ways, an attacker is able to accomplish the seemingly impossible</div><div class="t m0 x33 hd y190 ff4 fs5 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">.<span class="fs7 ws18"> This doesn’t </span></div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y191 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">just include criminals, although the criminal element is huge, perv<span class="_ _0"/>asiv<span class="_ _0"/>e, and only </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y192 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">increasing in efcacy—<span class="ff5">anyone</span> can put in the time to learn about our technology-</div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y193 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">warped world. <span class="_ _2"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e now li<span class="_ _0"/>ve in an age where an<span class="_ _0"/>ything is possible. In Chapter 2, you’ll </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y194 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">see real-world e<span class="_ _0"/>xamples demonstrating some interesting and enlightening examples.</div><div class="t m0 x32 hd y195 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For those who understand technology<span class="_ _3"/>, we live in an e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely interesting </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y196 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">time.<span class="_ _27"> </span>W<span class="_ _2"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>re reminded on an almost daily basis of the struggles of corporations by </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y197 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">headlines alerting us to the latest breach. Major parts of the <span class="_ _2"/>American infrastructure </div><div class="t m0 x31 hd y198 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been called “indefensible” by those tasked with ensuring its security<span class="_ _3"/>, and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>