<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pffc" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="fc"><div class="pc pcfc w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xa3 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 7: Phase III: Remote T<span class="_ _0"/>argeting<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">229</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">up on with more in-depth analysis. Unfortunately<span class="_ _2"/>, in a dense area, this might mean </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">many netw<span class="_ _0"/>orks to explore. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e can use the signal strength and GPS coordinates </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to help prioritize our list, but just by the nature of radio w<span class="_ _0"/>av<span class="_ _0"/>es, we can’t treat this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">information as gospel. There ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve been man<span class="_ _0"/>y times in my experience where the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">signal strength indications were not helpful in determining the actual physical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">location of an access point. If we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e identied a network with a hidden SSID that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y213 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">also has a client currently connected and we’<span class="_ _2"/>re feeling impatient, we can force the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1654 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">association process by spoong a disassociation message to the client. Using the </div><div class="t m0 x3 h3f y16f3 fff fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">aireplay-ng<span class="ff4"> command, we can spoof this message with the follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing command:</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y17ec fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">root@kali:~# aireplay-ng --deauth=5 –a &lt;BSSID&gt; –c &lt;Client_MAC&gt; mon0</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y17ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">From the client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice’<span class="_ _0"/>s perspecti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e, this looks no different from a le<span class="_ _0"/>gitimate </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">disassociation message, and a person sitting at the computer will simply see the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wireless network go do<span class="_ _0"/>wn and almost immediately come back up. This will almost </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ne<span class="_ _0"/>ver be percei<span class="_ _0"/>ved as a malicious acti<span class="_ _0"/>vity<span class="_ _2"/>, as anyone who has used wireless will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tell you it’<span class="_ _2"/>s common to have the connection bounce due to signal problems. If you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">omit the -c option, then the disassociation message will be sent to the broadcast </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">address, which will disassociate any client connected to that BSSID that recei<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>es the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">message.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y17f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">K<span class="_ _0"/>eep in mind that if the access point the client is connected to also receiv<span class="_ _0"/>es this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">frame, it can be logged and alerted on, as it will be obvious the access point did not </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">send the frame. <span class="_ _0"/>Whether or not an administrator pays any attention to it is another </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">story<span class="_ _2"/>, but I digress.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y17f9 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Enumerate Client Info</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">After performing our initial wireless recon, we’ll shift to focus on enumerating </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17fb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wireless client information for two reasons. Either we identied wireless networks </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17fc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that we can’t positi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ely associate with any particular compan<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>, or all of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17fd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">wireless networks positi<span class="_ _0"/>vely identied as belonging to the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17fe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not vulnerable to direct exploitation. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, we want to identify information about </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y17ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the client wireless de<span class="_ _0"/>vices to either identify the ownership of a particular wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1800 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">network or to specically tar<span class="_ _0"/>get the wireless clients in the next step of this phase.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1801 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>ve already co<span class="_ _0"/>vered the two main tools for collecting data on clients: Kismet </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1802 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and airodump. The main thing you w<span class="_ _0"/>ant to look for after identifying that a client </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1803 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">de<span class="_ _0"/>vice is associated with the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization is to identify any netw<span class="_ _0"/>orks they’<span class="_ _2"/>re </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1804 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">probing for<span class="_ _2"/>. Once we’<span class="_ _0"/>ve identied netw<span class="_ _0"/>orks that a client device is probing for<span class="_ _2"/>, we’ll </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1805 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mov<span class="_ _0"/>e on to attacking the wireless clients.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1806 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">After identifying the networks a client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice will connect to, we’ll also w<span class="_ _0"/>ant </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1807 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to identify as much information about the client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice as possible. If we’<span class="_ _0"/>re really </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>