<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pffd" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="fd"><div class="pc pcfd w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">230<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">lucky<span class="_ _3"/>, we might have already captured pack<span class="_ _0"/>ets during the wireless network recon </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that can help indicate the o<span class="_ _0"/>wnership and type of the client device. F<span class="_ _0"/>or example, if we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">captured a Dynamic Host Conguration Protocol (DHCP) request, NetBIOS request, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Domain Name Service (DNS) request, or an HTTP request, these all might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e data </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">that could indicate the client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice is associated with the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. There </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">are obviously more protocols that could re<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>eal the organization that is responsible </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y213 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for the client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice; howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing are extremely common core protocols </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1654 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that you are likely to see frequently:</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y4f2 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 h2c y784 ff3 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">DHCP<span class="_ _a"> </span><span class="ff4">Could include de<span class="_ _0"/>vice hostname in request</span></div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y785 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 h2c y786 ff3 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">NetBIOS<span class="_ _a"> </span><span class="ff4">Broadcasts could re<span class="_ _0"/>veal domain name of client as well as hostname</span></div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1808 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 h2c y1809 ff3 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">HTTP<span class="_ _a"> </span><span class="ff4">Requests could include web server name in HOST header or client </span></div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y180a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">information, as well as cleartext data</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y180b ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 h2c y180c ff3 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">DNS<span class="_ _a"> </span><span class="ff4">It is common for software such as anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus, endpoint management, or </span></div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y180d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven the operating system to automatically query for serv<span class="_ _0"/>ers, indicating servers </div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y180e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or client information</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y180f ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Stealth Physical Reconnaissance</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1810 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remember<span class="_ _0"/>, this is the v<span class="_ _0"/>ery rst attack phase in which we’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e had to leav<span class="_ _0"/>e the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1811 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">comfort of our chair and the cozy warmth of an anon<span class="_ _0"/>ymous Internet connection. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1812 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll revie<span class="_ _0"/>w some tips here that are specic to maintaining stealth during wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1813 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reconnaissance. If the situation you nd yourself in is unique and requires a little </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1814 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">more physical presence, then rst re<span class="_ _0"/>view some of the stealth methods co<span class="_ _0"/>vered in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1815 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Chapters 8 and 9.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1816 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Not only should you be adhering to the <span class="_ _2"/>APT tenet of KISS, but you can also </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1817 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">benet from some of the social engineering concepts from the pre<span class="_ _0"/>vious chapter—for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1818 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example, the concept of acting congruently with your story<span class="_ _3"/>. If you’<span class="_ _0"/>re dressed in a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1819 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hoody or baseball cap and jeans and are wandering around a secure perimeter<span class="_ _2"/>, that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y181a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will probably raise some eyebro<span class="_ _0"/>ws. Instead, if you had identied the landscaping and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y181b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">maintenance company and were mo<span class="_ _0"/>wing the grass around a perimeter<span class="_ _0"/>, that might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y181c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">seem completely normal.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y181d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">It is very important that you understand you may be physically observ<span class="_ _0"/>ed—not </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y181e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">only by indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals at the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization, but by random citizens. If you act in a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y181f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">way that is suspicious, it is not unreasonable that a good citizen might place a call to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1820 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the police. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou do not want this to be the reason why your otherwise well-planned </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1821 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attack fails.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1822 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A perfect example is the real-w<span class="_ _0"/>orld story of a person connected with a series of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1823 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">retail companies that were hacked by a group of indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals associated with <span class="_ _2"/>Albert </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>