<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pffe" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="fe"><div class="pc pcfe w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xa3 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 7: Phase III: Remote T<span class="_ _0"/>argeting<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">231</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Gonzalez. <span class="_ _2"/>According to the <span class="ff5 ws21">New Y<span class="_ _3"/>ork <span class="_ _5"/>Times <span class="_ _5"/><span class="ff4">(http://www<span class="_ _2"/>.nytimes.com/2010/11/14/</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">magazine/14Hacker<span class="_ _0"/>-t.html), “This led the Secret Service to Jonathan James. The<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">pulled James’<span class="_ _2"/>s police records and found that in 2005 he was arrested by a Palmetto </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Bay<span class="_ _2"/>, Fla., police ofcer who found him in the parking lot of a retail store in the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">middle of the night. The ofcer didn’<span class="_ _0"/>t kno<span class="_ _0"/>w why James and his companion, a man </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">named Christopher Scott, were sitting in a car with laptops and a giant radio antenna, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">but she suspected the<span class="_ _0"/>y weren’t playing <span class="ff5">W<span class="_ _1b"/>orld of <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>ar<span class="_ _0"/>craft.<span class="ff4">”</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _0"/>ireless hacking has become much more common kno<span class="_ _0"/>wledge, as e<span class="_ _0"/>ven small </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">local ne<span class="_ _0"/>ws organizations ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve co<span class="_ _0"/>vered stories on the popularity of w<span class="_ _0"/>ar driving and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wireless hacking. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>ith all that in mind, to put our main goal of stealth more simply<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">remember to just not do anything blatantly ob<span class="_ _0"/>vious or stupid. If you don’t see ho<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">parking a car at a retail store at night with glo<span class="_ _0"/>wing laptop screens and a “giant </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y276 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">antenna” might seem suspicious, then this book probably won’<span class="_ _0"/>t help you.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y277 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>o begin your stealth reconnaissance operations, you should also consider the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">area surrounding the target. If there are good public or common areas, these can be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the perfect location to set up shop and begin our reconnaissance. Common areas of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization can be good options, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut being in an area under the control </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">of the organization for too long is not a great idea at this point. <span class="_ _1b"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can also consider </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">other buildings that are close—for e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, hotels, cof<span class="_ _0"/>fee shops, libraries, and e<span class="_ _0"/>ven </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">restaurants and bars represent locations where it’<span class="_ _2"/>s common for someone to bring a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">laptop and sit for a long period. <span class="_ _2"/>Also, consider the fact that you don’t necessarily </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1824 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">need to be physically present to obtain the necessary data. Look for opportunities </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1825 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to leav<span class="_ _0"/>e a wireless reconnaissance system in a target-rich en<span class="_ _2"/>vironment. Depending </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1826 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on the location, this could be as simple as setting up a laptop in a secluded area or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1827 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">leaving a smaller system lik<span class="_ _0"/>e a phone or tablet in a disguised piece of hardware.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1828 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e could park a car with our system running and an extended external battery and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y284 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">return to it later<span class="_ _2"/>. If we’<span class="_ _0"/>re feeling especially condent, we could use an aerial drone to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y285 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reach difcult areas. This may seem a little absurd, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut similar technology is already </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y286 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">being used by our gov<span class="_ _0"/>ernment on a large scale. Some of these systems ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve arrays </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y287 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of cameras that can watch and record o<span class="_ _0"/>ver four square miles at once! <span class="_ _0"/>This is pretty </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1829 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">scary tech, which is probably out of the budget of most <span class="_ _2"/>APT hackers, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut it still </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y182a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">prov<span class="_ _0"/>es the concept is viable. For more information about these systems, tak<span class="_ _0"/>e some </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y182b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">time to research persistent surveillance systems.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y182c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If the area is heavily restricted, we could also consider mailing a de<span class="_ _0"/>vice to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y28c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. <span class="_ _0"/>The device we ship could be a phone, tablet, modied access </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y28d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">point, or microcomputer de<span class="_ _0"/>vice with an external battery<span class="_ _2"/>. This technique w<span class="_ _0"/>as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y28e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">actually rst proposed by Robert Graham and David Maynor of Errata Security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y28f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">who presented this idea at Defcon 16. One possibility is to ship the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice to a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y182d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">person who doesn’t e<span class="_ _0"/>xist at the target ofce. <span class="_ _0"/>That way<span class="_ _3"/>, the device will most likely </div><a class="" href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/14/magazine/14Hacker-t.html"><div class="d m1" style="border-style:none;position:absolute;left:335.117158px;bottom:695.437642px;width:165.000000px;height:12.000000px;background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.000001);"/></a><a class="" href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/14/magazine/14Hacker-t.html"><div class="d m1" style="border-style:none;position:absolute;left:94.452003px;bottom:679.715797px;width:124.000000px;height:12.000000px;background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.000001);"/></a></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>