<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pfff" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="ff"><div class="pc pcff w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">232<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sit on someone’<span class="_ _2"/>s desk or the mail room while they try to nd the person to giv<span class="_ _0"/>e the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">package to. Once they determine that the person doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t work there, the<span class="_ _0"/>y should </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">send the package back to the sender! In the meantime, you can remotely connect to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice and perform your wireless reconnaissance. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e will go much further in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">depth on these surreptitious hardware techniques in the ne<span class="_ _0"/>xt chapter<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously mentioned, war dri<span class="_ _0"/>ving is not restricted to cars. If it’<span class="_ _2"/>s a method of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">transportation, chances are someone has already performed wireless reconnaissance </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">using it. I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve heard stories of war biking, war motorc<span class="_ _0"/>ycling, war mopeding, war </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">skateboarding, and e<span class="_ _0"/>ven war scootering. <span class="_ _2"/>As we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e discussed, you don’<span class="_ _0"/>t ev<span class="_ _0"/>en </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">necessarily need to be on a motorized vehicle. Just be careful if you’<span class="_ _2"/>re caught war </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">walking in a place you shouldn’<span class="_ _0"/>t be—then it might quickly turn into war running or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y182e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">war eeing.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y182f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When war dri<span class="_ _0"/>ving in a vehicle, be sure not to get too comfortable with the f<span class="_ _0"/>act </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that you’<span class="_ _2"/>re somewhat hidden from vie<span class="_ _0"/>w; you still need to make a conscious ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to remain stealthy<span class="_ _2"/>. One of the most important details will be how to properly hide </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">an antenna. Frankly<span class="_ _2"/>, this can be a difcult task for 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz antennas, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as they’<span class="_ _2"/>re not the same as a regular car radio antenna. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, a professionally </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1488 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mounted omnidirectional antenna on a car can be slightly less suspicious.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Remember that anything physically between your antenna and the wireless source </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will weaken the signal. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, the glass of your car windows will be detrimental </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to our signal, but if it’<span class="_ _2"/>s a choice between a weaker signal and being observ<span class="_ _0"/>ed, you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">should lean to<span class="_ _0"/>ward the weaker signal. Generally speaking, cars can be good for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">actual war dri<span class="_ _0"/>ving when you won’<span class="_ _0"/>t be parked for an<span class="_ _0"/>y length of time. Howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, I </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">don’t lik<span class="_ _0"/>e to use cars for manual wireless recon. If there isn’t a nearby location that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you can work from for an e<span class="_ _0"/>xtended period and your only option is a vehicle, then </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">there are still things we can do to be as stealthy as possible.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y148f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Abov<span class="_ _0"/>e all else, remember what you’<span class="_ _0"/>re trying to accomplish and that maintaining </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1830 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">anonymity and stealth are k<span class="_ _0"/>ey here. So think through e<span class="_ _0"/>verything that someone might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1831 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">observe while you’<span class="_ _2"/>re war dri<span class="_ _0"/>ving or in a parked car<span class="_ _2"/>. Some obvious good options </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1492 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">include things like tinted windo<span class="_ _0"/>ws. Being able to work from the back seats of some </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1493 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">vehicles may pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide more cov<span class="_ _0"/>er; you may be able to completely cov<span class="_ _0"/>er yourself in a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1494 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nonsuspicious way—for e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, with cardboard boxes or a blanket. F<span class="_ _0"/>or this reason, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1495 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">trucks can provide perfect co<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1832 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It can be a little difcult to hide any antennas in a car<span class="_ _2"/>. In some situations, it may </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1833 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">make more sense to mount the antenna professionally on the e<span class="_ _0"/>xterior of the vehicle. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1498 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, because 2.4 GHz antennas don’<span class="_ _0"/>t look anything lik<span class="_ _0"/>e the traditional antennas </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1834 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’ll see on cars, or e<span class="_ _0"/>ven the same as the type of antennas you’<span class="_ _0"/>ll see with CB </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1835 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">radios, they can stick out lik<span class="_ _0"/>e a sore thumb<span class="_ _0"/>.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>