<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf103" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="103"><div class="pc pc103 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">236<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">That’<span class="_ _2"/>s it—that’<span class="_ _0"/>s ho<span class="_ _0"/>w easy cracking <span class="_ _0"/>WEP has become. If you are in a serious time </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">crunch and you want to take the acti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e route, you can use the aireplay tool. But keep </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in mind that this is a noisy attack, so in most cases, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s probably best to just sniff </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">passi<span class="_ _0"/>vely<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y1001 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">root@kali:~# aireplay-ng –arpreplay –b BSSID mon0</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1882 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">WP<span class="_ _0"/>A Preshared Key Cracking</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1883 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The only meaningful vulnerability through which we can compromise a wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1884 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">network congured with a <span class="_ _0"/>WP<span class="_ _3"/>A-PSK or <span class="_ _0"/>WP<span class="_ _3"/>A2-PSK is to brute-force the key ofine. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1885 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This is a straightforward attack and one that is entirely passi<span class="_ _0"/>ve. <span class="_ _2"/>All we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to do is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1886 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">capture the four-w<span class="_ _0"/>ay authentication handshake between a client and access point. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1887 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many more residential-grade access points are coming with def<span class="_ _0"/>ault <span class="_ _0"/>WP<span class="_ _3"/>A preshared </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1888 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ke<span class="_ _0"/>ys, which are relativ<span class="_ _0"/>ely strong and much more “random” than those chosen by end </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1889 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">users.</div><div class="t m0 x4 h3f y188a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Using <span class="fff">airmon-ng</span> in a similar way to the <span class="_ _0"/>WEP cracking e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, we’ll monitor </div><div class="t m0 x3 h3f y188b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">all packets for the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get BSSID and channel. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e then use <span class="fff">aircrack-ng</span> with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y188c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the wordlist option and the captured packets. If we f<span class="_ _0"/>ailed to capture the necessary </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y188d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">authentication packets, we’ll see an error lik<span class="_ _0"/>e the follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing example:</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y188e fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Opening out-01.cap</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y188f fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">No valid WPA handshakes found..</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y1890 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Quitting aircrack-ng...</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1891 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Just as when capturing an SSID for a cloaked network, we can perform the same </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1892 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">spoofed disassociation message to disconnect a client from an access point, after </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1893 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">which the client will go through the association and authentication process. Once we </div><div class="t m0 x3 h3f y1894 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e captured the authentication handshake, we use the <span class="fff">aircrack-ng</span> command </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1895 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as follo<span class="_ _0"/>ws:</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y1896 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">root@kali: aircrack-ng -w /usr/share/dict/words out-01.cap</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1897 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This opens the wordlist specied by the -w ar<span class="_ _0"/>gument, and the nal argument </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1898 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">contains the PCAP les that contain the authentication handshake. Because this is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1899 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a traditional brute-force attack—specically a dictionary attack—our success or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y189a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">failure lies solely in the dictionary we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve chosen or created.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y189b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Most likely because the <span class="_ _0"/>WP<span class="_ _3"/>A-PSK is not something you must rely on users to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y189c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">remember and enter on a regular basis, administrators tend to create relati<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ely long </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y189d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and complex passw<span class="_ _0"/>ords. In my experience, it appears that e<span class="_ _0"/>ven nontechnical users </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>