<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf10d" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="10d"><div class="pc pc10d w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">246<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Getting Clients to Connect</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The technical methods for getting a client to connect to our access point are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely simple. <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _2"/>ypically<span class="_ _2"/>, a client device will prefer the wireless netw<span class="_ _0"/>ork with the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">strongest signal strength as long as it has pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously connected to a network with that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">SSID. Thus, it can be important for us to tak<span class="_ _0"/>e signal strength into consideration. If </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we can identify other networks that a client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice is probing for and we can provide </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y52f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a better signal, we might be able to get them to connect to us. This is another reason </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y530 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">why po<span class="_ _0"/>wer and antenna conguration options within a wireless card are important </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y531 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws16">features.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y532 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Some operating systems will allo<span class="_ _0"/>w a user to prioritize the order in which attempts </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to connect to wireless networks should be made if multiple congured networks are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, in some cases, we can’t rely on po<span class="_ _0"/>wer signal alone. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e already </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">identied the networks a client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice is probing for<span class="_ _0"/>, so we can either manually </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y533 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">congure our access point to use a specic SSID or we can congure it to respond to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y534 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">any probe requests from the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get client de<span class="_ _0"/>vice.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It’<span class="_ _2"/>s also important to understand that most devices will ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve the security settings </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y739 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of a wireless network associated with the network name. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, if a client probes </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y73a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for a wireless network “WIFI_SECURE” that has <span class="_ _0"/>WEP encryption congured </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y73b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and we send a probe response that we are <span class="_ _0"/>WIFI_SECURE but we are congured </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y73c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with no authentication or encryption settings, then the client will not automatically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y73d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">connect to us. This is not necessarily an issue if we are responding to all the wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y73e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">networks that a client probes for<span class="_ _2"/>, as eventually (and hopefully) we should respond to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1991 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a probe request that is for an open wireless network and the client will automatically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1992 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">connect to us. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e will cover the commands to respond to an<span class="_ _0"/>y probe request in the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1993 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">next section.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1994 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Let’<span class="_ _2"/>s consider the most extreme case when we can’t rely on the client to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1995 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">automatically connect to our access point. If a client has only pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously connected </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1996 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to a single SSID that has <span class="_ _0"/>WP<span class="_ _3"/>A-PSK congured, then we can’t ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>vely make </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1997 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it connect to us automatically<span class="_ _2"/>. T<span class="_ _3"/>echnically<span class="_ _0"/>, it w<span class="_ _0"/>ould associate to us, but once </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1998 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the authentication fails due to us not ha<span class="_ _0"/>ving the preshared ke<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>, the client will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1999 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">disassociate. In this extreme e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, we can’t use an<span class="_ _0"/>y technical methods to make </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y199a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the client connect to our access point. Instead, we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to create a situation in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y199b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">which the user would choose to connect to our open wireless network. <span class="_ _0"/>The simplest </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y199c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">scenario is where we continuously send out disassociation requests to the target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y199d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">client, ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>ely performing a simple denial of service attack.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y199e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Think about it: If an av<span class="_ _0"/>erage user were at the ke<span class="_ _0"/>yboard of their laptop trying to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y199f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">get important work done—or<span class="_ _2"/>, more realistically<span class="_ _0"/>, trying to bro<span class="_ _0"/>wse Facebook—and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the wireless connection suddenly dropped and would not reconnect, what would the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>