<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf111" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="111"><div class="pc pc111 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">250<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb3f fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Wrote 7 leases to leases file.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb40 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Listening on LPF/at0/00:21:de:ad:be:ef/10.0.0.0/24</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 yb41 fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Sending on   LPF/at0/00:21:de:ad:be:ef/10.0.0.0/24</div><div class="t m0 x3 h44 y19db fff fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">root@kali:~#</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y19dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws20">Just be aw<span class="_ _0"/>are that you are not required to specify an interface for the DHCP server </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to run on. Instead, the server will automatically use an interf<span class="_ _0"/>ace for which there is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">an appropriate subnet denition in the conguration le. In this case, since we set </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19df ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">our at0 interface to use IP address 10.0.0.1/24 and we ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a subnet declaration for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">10.0.0.0 with a netmask of 255.255.255.0, this interface will be used to send the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">congured addresses.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y19e2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Once we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e the access point up and the server handing out DHCP addresses, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a basic fully functional access point. No<span class="_ _0"/>w with no other conguration, the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">client de<span class="_ _0"/>vices won’t be able to do much. Right no<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _3"/>, they wouldn’<span class="_ _0"/>t be able to resolve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">any hosts via DNS or get out to an<span class="_ _0"/>y Internet sites. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll cover the conguration to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">allo<span class="_ _0"/>w these in the next section.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y19e7 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Choosing the Hardware Access Point</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you’<span class="_ _2"/>re going to rely on a hardware-based access point, there are a few unique </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">options to choose from. The criteria we ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve to consider is the same as when we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">chose a wireless adapter<span class="_ _2"/>. W<span class="_ _3"/>e want an access point that has good po<span class="_ _0"/>wer options. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">might want one that is particularly small and portable, with the capability for good </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19ec ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">external antennas and for the task at hand. <span class="_ _0"/>This also helps with po<span class="_ _0"/>wering the device. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If we choose a smaller de<span class="_ _0"/>vice with lower po<span class="_ _0"/>wer consumption, we can po<span class="_ _0"/>wer it much </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">longer using an external battery if we need it to be mobile. Some classic options </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">include something as simple but e<span class="_ _0"/>xible as the Linksys <span class="_ _0"/>WR<span class="_ _2"/>T54G access points, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as well as the mini-access points we cov<span class="_ _0"/>ered earlier<span class="_ _2"/>. W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll cov<span class="_ _0"/>er other options for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hardware-related de<span class="_ _0"/>vices in the next chapter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y19f2 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Attacking WP<span class="_ _0"/>A-Enterprise Clients</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _0"/>ireless networks congured for <span class="_ _0"/>WP<span class="_ _1b"/>A-Enterprise authenticate all users individually </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">against a central Remote <span class="_ _2"/>Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) server<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Thus, all users hav<span class="_ _0"/>e their o<span class="_ _0"/>wn unique set of credentials. T<span class="_ _3"/>ypically<span class="_ _2"/>, users will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">authenticate with a user name and password, and typically<span class="_ _2"/>, these are their domain </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">credentials. It is also possible to authenticate users with smart cards or certicates, in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">which case we can’t directly e<span class="_ _0"/>xploit this conguration.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y19f9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _0"/>ireless networks that are congured for <span class="_ _0"/>WP<span class="_ _1b"/>A-Enterprise mode are not directly </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">exploitable. Instead, we can tar<span class="_ _0"/>get the client de<span class="_ _0"/>vices with a rogue wireless access </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>