<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf128" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="128"><div class="pc pc128 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x2 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 8: Spear Phishing with Hardware T<span class="_ _0"/>rojans<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">273</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, e<span class="_ _0"/>ven if we do deploy an audio b<span class="_ _0"/>ug in an area where it’<span class="_ _2"/>s likely that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">condential information is discussed aloud, it might still take some time for us to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">capture anything meaningful.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll use some of the same bugging or backdoor hardware de<span class="_ _0"/>vices we discuss </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">here in the next phase. If we’<span class="_ _2"/>re unable to deliv<span class="_ _0"/>er a bug or hardw<span class="_ _0"/>are backdoor </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">successfully<span class="_ _2"/>, then we’ll just hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to resort to bringing it to the location ourselves and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">planting it in a meaningful location. <span class="_ _2"/>As always, we’<span class="_ _2"/>re focusing on hardware devices </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that are accessible to anyone on almost an<span class="_ _0"/>y budget. If you w<span class="_ _0"/>ork for the National </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Security <span class="_ _2"/>Agency (NSA), you probably hav<span class="_ _0"/>e access to de<span class="_ _0"/>vices that will make most of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing look like delightful little toys.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1c70 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hardware Deliver<span class="_ _1"/>y Methods</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The actual deli<span class="_ _0"/>very method of our <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _0"/>rojaned hardware is ultimately not terribly </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c71 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">important, and the correct method will be relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely ob<span class="_ _0"/>vious to you. The main </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1b8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">choices include sending the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice via traditional mail services such as the United </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c72 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">States Postal Service or pri<span class="_ _0"/>vate carriers lik<span class="_ _0"/>e FedEx.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y624 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Based on the wealth of information we will continuously obtain through </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1be0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reconnaissance, the perfect method and story will present itself. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, let’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c73 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">say the target emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yee posts a message on a social media website saying how the<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c74 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">really want the latest gadget/phone/tablet for Christmas. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e could either e-mail that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c75 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">person, informing them that they ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve w<span class="_ _0"/>on that very gadget and it will be sent to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c76 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">them shortly<span class="_ _2"/>, or send the device directly to them without an<span class="_ _0"/>y precommunication.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1c77 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Again, don’t get mired do<span class="_ _0"/>wn in ho<span class="_ _0"/>w this will make sense; the proper story will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c78 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">become obvious. Maybe it w<span class="_ _0"/>as a door prize at a conference or local ev<span class="_ _0"/>ent the person </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c79 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attended. By sending the target the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice with a letter that states the same story<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c7a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we can assume a person will likely be much less suspicious of the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice arri<span class="_ _0"/>ving at </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c7b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">their doorstop than they might be of an e-mail claiming the<span class="_ _0"/>y’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e won something.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1c7c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remember to get creati<span class="_ _0"/>ve and use all of the information we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve obtained. Does the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c7d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide hardware to remote users? If so, perhaps we can send them an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c7e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">“upgrade” or replacement de<span class="_ _0"/>vice. Maybe the organization is sending ne<span class="_ _0"/>w cellular </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c7f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hotspots to its remote users to help them get connected while on the road.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1c80 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If a target emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yee visits an online forum or group, perhaps we could post a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c81 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">rafe or charity auction in a location where that employee is likely to see it. Mak<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd84 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the rafe as enticing as possible, again by using as much information about the target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd85 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as possible. <span class="_ _2"/>As an example, let’<span class="_ _2"/>s say we’<span class="_ _0"/>ve identied the follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing information </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c82 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">about the target emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yee from their Facebook prole:</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1c83 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1c84 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Has a motorcycle </div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1c85 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1c86 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Drinks at Dunkin Donuts often</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>