<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf3" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="3"><div class="pc pc3 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y3 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">About the Author</div><div class="t m0 x3 h5 y4 ff3 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws1">T<span class="_ _0"/>yler Wrightson <span class="_ _1"/><span class="ff4 ws0">is the author of <span class="ff5">Advanced P<span class="_ _2"/>ersistent <span class="_ _0"/>Thr<span class="_ _0"/>eats<span class="ff4"> as well as </span>W<span class="_ _0"/>ir<span class="_ _2"/>eless Network </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y5 ff5 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Security: A Be<span class="_ _2"/>ginner’s Guide<span class="ff4">. <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _2"/>yler is the founder and president of Leet Systems, which </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y6 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">provides of<span class="_ _0"/>fensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve security services such as penetration testing and red teaming to secure </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y7 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls1 ws2">organizations against real-w<span class="_ _0"/>orld attackers. T<span class="_ _2"/>yler has o<span class="_ _0"/>ver 13 years’ e<span class="_ _0"/>xperience in the IT </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y8 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security eld, with extensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve e<span class="_ _0"/>xperience in all forms of of<span class="_ _0"/>fensiv<span class="_ _0"/>e security and penetration </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y9 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">testing. He holds industry certications for CISSP<span class="_ _3"/>, CCSP<span class="_ _3"/>, CCN<span class="_ _0"/>A, CCD<span class="_ _0"/>A, and MCSE. T<span class="_ _3"/>yler </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 ya ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">has also taught classes for CCN<span class="_ _0"/>A certication, wireless security<span class="_ _2"/>, and network security<span class="_ _2"/>. He </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 yb ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">has been a frequent speaker at industry conferences, including Derbycon, BSides, Rochester </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 yc ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Security Summit, NYS Cyber Security Conference, ISA<span class="_ _0"/>CA, ISSA, and others. Follo<span class="_ _0"/>w his </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 yd ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security blog at http://blog.leetsys.com.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 ye ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">About the T<span class="_ _3"/>echnical Editors</div><div class="t m0 x3 h5 yf ff3 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Reg Harnish<span class="ff4"> is an entrepreneur<span class="_ _2"/>, speaker<span class="_ _0"/>, security specialist, and the chief security strategist </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y10 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for GreyCastle Security<span class="_ _2"/>. Reg has nearly 15 years of security e<span class="_ _0"/>xperience, specializing in </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y11 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security solutions for nancial services, healthcare, higher education, and other industries. </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y12 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">His security expertise ranges from risk management, incident response, and re<span class="_ _0"/>gulatory </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y13 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls1 ws2">compliance to network, application, and physical security<span class="_ _2"/>. Reg brings a unique, thought-</div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y14 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">prov<span class="_ _0"/>oking perspecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve to his work, and he stri<span class="_ _0"/>ves to promote a<span class="_ _0"/>wareness, establish security </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y15 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">fundamentals, and reduce risk for GreyCastle Security clients.</div><div class="t m0 x4 h6 y16 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Reg attended Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _0"/>roy<span class="_ _2"/>, New <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ork, and has achiev<span class="_ _0"/>ed </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y17 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">numerous security and industry certications. He is a Certied Information Systems Security </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y18 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Professional (CISSP), a Certied Information Security Manager (CISM), and a Certied </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y19 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Information Systems <span class="_ _2"/>Auditor (CISA). In addition, Reg is certied in Information T<span class="_ _2"/>echnology </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y1a ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Infrastructure Library (ITIL) Service Essentials. He is a member of InfraGard, the </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y1b ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Information Systems <span class="_ _2"/>Audit and Control <span class="_ _0"/>Association (ISA<span class="_ _0"/>CA), and the Information Systems </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y1c ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Security <span class="_ _2"/>Association (ISSA). In addition to deep expertise in information security<span class="_ _2"/>, Reg has </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y1d ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls1 ws2">achiev<span class="_ _0"/>ed numerous physical security certications, including rearms instruction, range </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y1e ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">safety<span class="_ _2"/>, and personal protection.</div><div class="t m0 x4 h6 y1f ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Reg is a frequent speaker and has presented at prominent e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ents, including US Cyber </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y20 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Crime, Symantec <span class="_ _0"/>V<span class="_ _2"/>ision, ISA<span class="_ _0"/>CA, ISSA, InfraGard, and more. His successes hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y21 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">featured in sev<span class="_ _0"/>eral leading industry journals, including <span class="ff5">Softwar<span class="_ _0"/>e Magazine<span class="_ _0"/>, ComputerW<span class="_ _3"/>orld<span class="ff4">,</span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y22 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and <span class="ff5">InfoW<span class="_ _3"/>orld.</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 h5 y23 ff3 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Comrade<span class="ff4"> has been in information security since the early 2000s. Comrade holds se<span class="_ _0"/>veral </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y24 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls1 ws2">industry certications, but belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>es the only one that really means anything in regard to </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y25 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this book is the OSCP certication by the Offensi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e Security team. He currently performs </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y26 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls1 ws2">penetration testing against all attack vectors, network, application, physical, social, etc., for </div><div class="t m0 x3 h6 y27 ff4 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">clients in all verticals, including man<span class="_ _0"/>y Fortune 500 companies.</div><a class="" href="http://blog.leetsys.com"><div class="d m1" style="border-style:none;position:absolute;left:171.851852px;bottom:537.009826px;width:94.000000px;height:11.000000px;background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.000001);"/></a></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>