<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf136" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="136"><div class="pc pc136 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x2 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 8: Spear Phishing with Hardware T<span class="_ _0"/>rojans<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">287</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This is another great opportunity for us to use our o<span class="_ _0"/>wn custom software backdoor<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Of course, we’ll want to consider the end user and the entire conte<span class="_ _0"/>xt of what we’<span class="_ _2"/>re </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">attempting to gain access to and craft our backdoor especially for this purpose, but </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this will only enhance our ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>eness. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll cover the special features of our </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">backdoor in Chapter 10.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1d36 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Backdooring Phones</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d37 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls19 ws0">Backdooring a phone presents us with access to some interesting and unique </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d38 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls19 ws0">data. <span class="ls0">Backdooring a standard cell phone can be some<span class="_ _0"/>what difcult and provide </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d39 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">limited data, but backdooring a smart phone can be incredibly easy and pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide us </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d3a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with access to an absurd amount of data.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1d3b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">By backdooring a smart phone, not only will we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e access to text messages,<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d3c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">voice mails, and e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en the possibility of recording phone calls, but we’<span class="_ _0"/>ll also </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d3d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws16">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e nearly constant remote access to the data, regardless of where the user is<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d3e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws16">physically located. This data includes an<span class="_ _0"/>ything on the phone such as pictures, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d3f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">videos, and bro<span class="_ _0"/>wser history<span class="_ _2"/>, as well as any apps the user accesses on the phone </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d40 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">such as e-mail or social networking. <span class="_ _0"/>The concept of having a small computer<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d41 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">in one’<span class="_ _2"/>s pocket that is almost guaranteed to always be po<span class="_ _0"/>wered on and comes </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d42 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">integrated with a microphone, camera, and GPS should mak<span class="_ _0"/>e you giddy just </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d43 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">thinking about it.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y193b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The cost to us is simply the cost of the phone, as well as any paid apps. <span class="_ _2"/>Although </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d44 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a modern smart phone can easily cost ov<span class="_ _0"/>er $500, this cost is well worth what we’ll </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d45 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">ine<span class="_ _0"/>vitably gain access to. Because we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e unfettered access to and unlimited time </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d46 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with the phone, we can get as creati<span class="_ _0"/>ve and ingenious as we desire.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1d47 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e will focus on <span class="_ _0"/>Android-based phones here; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, man<span class="_ _0"/>y of the apps either </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d48 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">work on <span class="_ _2"/>Apple iOS devices or there are good alternati<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>es for iOS av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable. <span class="_ _0"/>The two </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d49 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">main features we’ll need are the ability to hide our backdoor apps and the ability to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d4a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">gain access to the rele<span class="_ _0"/>vant data on the phone. Some of the apps we might use will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d4b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">require root pri<span class="_ _0"/>vileges. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>ve already discussed rooting a phone in the discussion of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d4c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the wakizashi phone.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1d4d ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Phone-Monitoring Apps</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d4e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are some phenomenal apps written specically for the purpose of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d4f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">surreptitiously monitoring e<span class="_ _0"/>verything that happens on a phone. Generally<span class="_ _2"/>, these are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d50 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">targeted to<span class="_ _0"/>ward emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yers who wish to control their assets and ensure compliance </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d51 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with what the company has dened as acceptable use of the phone, or to<span class="_ _0"/>ward parents </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d52 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or suspicious spouses.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>