<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf144" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="144"><div class="pc pc144 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">301</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you look back at the phases we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve already gone through, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s probably hard to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">think of a scenario or target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization where we are required to enter Phase <span class="_ _2"/>V and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls1b ws25">physically inltrate an organization. </div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">There are, ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, some situations where this might be the most viable option </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y232 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls10 ws16">for success—for example, if the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get organization utilizes an air<span class="_ _0"/>gap for our tar<span class="_ _0"/>get </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">assets or there is essentially no external netw<span class="_ _0"/>ork connectivity to the Internet. <span class="_ _2"/>Although </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsf ws1b">thinking back to Chapter 2 when we discussed the Stuxnet virus, you can see that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls10 ws16">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven air<span class="_ _0"/>gaps might not be a match for a well-constructed spear-phishing attack.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In this phase, it won’<span class="_ _0"/>t necessarily always be about tar<span class="_ _0"/>geting the weakest link—in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls2c ws0">a way—because the weakest link may not lead us to a v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable asset or an ad<span class="_ _1"/>v<span class="ls0">antageous </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y163 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">lily pad. <span class="_ _0"/>When choosing physical target f<span class="_ _0"/>acilities, we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to weigh the assets </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable at that location with the lik<span class="_ _0"/>elihood of success or difculty to inltrate.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y237 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">I highly recommend you keep a constant e<span class="_ _0"/>ye on physical security controls and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y238 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">publications; innov<span class="_ _0"/>ation and changes in physical security are ongoing.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1e78 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The added risk that we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to accept in this phase means that we must be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e79 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extremely thoughtful and purposeful in all of our choices.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1e7a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As always, our quest will start with performing OSINT reconnaissance. <span class="_ _2"/>After </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e7b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">we’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e identied facilities of interest, we’ll perform physical reconnaissance near the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e7c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">target location. Building, e<span class="_ _0"/>xpanding, or conrming a list of facilities associated with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e7d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization should be the rst step in this phase.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1e7e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws34">Depending on the size of the organization, we might be completely inundated with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e7f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable choices of tar<span class="_ _0"/>get facilities, or we might be completely underwhelmed if </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e80 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve fe<span class="_ _0"/>w f<span class="_ _0"/>acilities.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1e81 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">APT T<span class="_ _3"/>eam Super Friends</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd7e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This is one of the fe<span class="_ _0"/>w phases where having a partner in crime can be e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">helpful. <span class="_ _0"/>When physically inltrating a facility<span class="_ _2"/>, a second person to help watch your </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">back, corroborate your story<span class="_ _2"/>, assist in reconnaissance, etc., can be in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable. In </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e82 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">addition, it can actually be easier to social engineer people when there are two </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e83 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">congruent indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals with the same story<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1c7f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">Many times, it seems that tw<span class="_ _0"/>o unknown people in an area can actually be less </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e84 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">suspicious than one. Especially if neither of those people look or “act” like people </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c81 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">belie<span class="_ _0"/>ve criminals to. <span class="_ _2"/>Among other things, this appears to be due to assumed legitimacy </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e85 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws16">and a strong trust trigger<span class="_ _2"/>. I’<span class="_ _0"/>ve performed physical penetration tests both alone and with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y891 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">a partner<span class="_ _0"/>, and e<span class="_ _0"/>very time, ha<span class="_ _0"/>ving someone with me has prov<span class="_ _0"/>en to be a benet.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y892 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">During one penetration test against a nancial rm, a co-conspirator and I </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y893 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">obtained access to legitimate k<span class="_ _0"/>ey fobs from the receptionist’<span class="_ _2"/>s desk, which we used </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e86 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to inltrate further into the facility and unlock doors; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, one sensitive area </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>