<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf145" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="145"><div class="pc pc145 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">302<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">was not accessible with the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y fobs we had. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e went to the server room of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">facility and told a person working on a serv<span class="_ _0"/>er that we were trying to identify where </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a specic fax number was terminated in the b<span class="_ _0"/>uilding. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e told him we believ<span class="_ _0"/>ed the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">line was located in the restricted area and asked him if he had access to that area. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Luckily<span class="_ _2"/>, the employee’<span class="_ _2"/>s key card ga<span class="_ _0"/>ve him access to the restricted area.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>o put his mind at ease, we showed him that the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y fob we were “gi<span class="_ _0"/>ven” work<span class="_ _0"/>ed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on a nearby area but that it w<span class="_ _0"/>as not working on the door to the restricted area. He </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">still seemed slightly hesitant, so we told him he could come with us and that it would </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">only take a minute. <span class="_ _0"/>When the three of us entered the restricted area, we spent a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">minute walking around looking for this phantom fax line.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">From our pre<span class="_ _0"/>vious reconnaissance, we knew there w<span class="_ _0"/>as a side entrance to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y978 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">restricted area that was alw<span class="_ _0"/>ays locked. I told my co-conspirator to keep the emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yee </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y979 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">busy for just a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w seconds. <span class="_ _0"/>Then I said to both of them, “I’ll just peak around this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">corner and see if there are any lines o<span class="_ _0"/>ver here.<span class="_ _3"/>” I quickly grabbed a small pad of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">paper on a desk, opened the side door<span class="_ _0"/>, stuck the paper in the door jam, pre<span class="_ _0"/>venting </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the door from closing, and walked back to the tw<span class="_ _0"/>o people still chatting about nothing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of importance.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y162b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I told him that I didn’t belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e what we were looking for was in that area and told </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ccc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">them both I was starting to get mad that we weren’<span class="_ _0"/>t giv<span class="_ _0"/>en better specic details on </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ccd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">where the line we were looking for was located. “I’m sick of this, the<span class="_ _0"/>y keep doing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e87 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this to us, let’<span class="_ _2"/>s just leave and we’<span class="_ _0"/>ll come back tomorrow if we ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e to.<span class="_ _2"/>”</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1e88 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e thanked the employee for his help and casually walked out of the f<span class="_ _0"/>acility<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e89 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Once out of vie<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>, we then went around to the side entrance and walked right into </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the restricted area. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e spent ve minutes backdooring a few w<span class="_ _0"/>orkstations and then </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">slipped out. This same technique w<span class="_ _0"/>ould hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been much more difcult if I didn’t </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a capable partner in crime to distract the employee.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1e8a ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It’<span class="_ _3"/>s Ofcial–Size Matters</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e8b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">The size of an organization can re<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>eal a lot about the culture we’<span class="_ _0"/>re lik<span class="_ _0"/>ely to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e8c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">encounter<span class="_ _2"/>. T<span class="_ _3"/>ypically<span class="_ _0"/>, in lar<span class="_ _0"/>ge organizations we can rely on the f<span class="_ _0"/>act that employees </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e8d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will be used to dealing with other employees the<span class="_ _0"/>y’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e nev<span class="_ _0"/>er met before due to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e8e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws24">turnov<span class="_ _0"/>er that introduces ne<span class="_ _0"/>w employees and a constant barrage of outside consultants </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e8f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and contractors.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1e90 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">In smaller organizations, you can probably count on most emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yees knowing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e91 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>veryone else. <span class="_ _0"/>This doesn’t mean you can’<span class="_ _0"/>t social engineer employees at smaller </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e92 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsc ws17">organizations or physically inltrate f<span class="_ _0"/>acilities of smaller organizations; instead, it </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1e93 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">just changes the tactics you’<span class="_ _2"/>re likely to use.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>