<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf148" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="148"><div class="pc pc148 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">305</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">want to look for good v<span class="_ _0"/>antage points, including neighboring streets, parks, or other </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">good observ<span class="_ _0"/>ation points.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou can also take note of basic things at this point like fences, guard stations, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">parking lots, etc., to understand the general layout and begin to understand the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security posture of that target location. <span class="_ _1b"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can also look for neighboring buildings, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">which you can use to gain additional long-term v<span class="_ _0"/>antage points to perform physical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws16">reconnaissance.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1eb2 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Example T<span class="_ _3"/>arget Facility T<span class="_ _2"/>ypes</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing are some of the most common choices for the types of facilities that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">we might choose to physically inltrate. Each of these types has its o<span class="_ _0"/>wn unique </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1b5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">personality that helps to dene not only the likely assets at the location and the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security controls in place, but also the general ease and return of tar<span class="_ _0"/>geting a facility </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of that type.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1eb6 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Homes</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In Phase III, we targeted remote emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yees as well as relations of the target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">employees. In this phase, we’ll re<span class="_ _0"/>visit the v<span class="_ _0"/>alue of some of these employees and their </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">electronic assets.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1eba ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Employees’ homes can man<span class="_ _0"/>y times be the absolute weakest link. Homes typically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ebb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e minimal security<span class="_ _2"/>, if any security at all. <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _3"/>ake a moment to think about most </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ebc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">homes you visit, those of friends, colleagues, family<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>What type of defenses do you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ebd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">typically encounter? Many people probably don’<span class="_ _0"/>t hav<span class="_ _0"/>e much more than door locks, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ebe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">if they lock their doors at all.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1ebf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Add this to the absolute absurd amount of data that people are no<span class="_ _0"/>w giving a<span class="_ _0"/>way </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">about themselves, their homes, and their whereabouts with social netw<span class="_ _0"/>orking sites </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">like F<span class="_ _0"/>acebook and T<span class="_ _3"/>witter<span class="_ _0"/>. If we identied relati<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>es in Phase III, these can prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">be very helpful in obtaining this type of information.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1ec3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Just imagine ho<span class="_ _0"/>w often you see people sharing when they’ll be a<span class="_ _0"/>way on v<span class="_ _0"/>acation </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or out of to<span class="_ _0"/>wn for a weekend. The best part is that the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get employee doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t e<span class="_ _0"/>ven </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">need to be the one sharing the information. Often, family members will pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide all </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of the information we need.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1ec7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">K<span class="_ _0"/>eep in mind that with homes especially<span class="_ _2"/>, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s not merely the fact that the<span class="_ _0"/>y’<span class="_ _2"/>re easy </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1bd6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to break into. Homes would be meaningless tar<span class="_ _0"/>gets if they didn’<span class="_ _0"/>t contain lily pad </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">assets that can lead to our target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, we might be able to physically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ec9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">inltrate a home with these assets, allo<span class="_ _0"/>wing us to backdoor specic equipment </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">without anyone being made a<span class="_ _0"/>ware that an<span class="_ _0"/>ything has happened. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e’ll co<span class="_ _0"/>ver specic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ecb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">ways in which homes can be inltrated later in this chapter<span class="_ _0"/>, re<span class="_ _0"/>gardless of common </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ecc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">home defenses such as locks, alarm systems, motion sensors, and more.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>