<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf149" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="149"><div class="pc pc149 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">306<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y328 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hotels</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y329 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hotel rooms can prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to be extremely easy and v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable tar<span class="_ _0"/>gets. Generally </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">speaking, we’ll be tar<span class="_ _0"/>geting remote employees that are tra<span class="_ _0"/>veling on b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness; thus, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they’<span class="_ _0"/>ll likely ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve important assets with them—for e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, laptops and smart </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">phones or e<span class="_ _0"/>ven printed documents. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll cov<span class="_ _0"/>er specic ways to surreptitiously </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">access hotel rooms later in this chapter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1ecd ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remote Locations</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ece ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remote locations that are associated with or o<span class="_ _0"/>wned entirely by the target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ecf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization can also be a great choice. Generally speaking, the smaller size and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">limited staf<span class="_ _0"/>f of remote ofces mean fewer e<span class="_ _0"/>yes and less security<span class="_ _2"/>. Many times, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">because these remote ofces contain only employees, the network will be completely </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">unrestricted from the main network.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1ed3 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Partners, Sisters, and Subsidiaries</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Remote locations of partner organizations, or e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en external companies with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">outsourced functions, can also prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e more access to the main network than </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">is necessary<span class="_ _2"/>. Thus, if we can compromise an asset at a partner or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization, sister </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization, or an<span class="_ _0"/>y related relationship, we might be able to use this as our lily pad </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ed8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsc ws17">to the main organization.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1ed9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws17">Headquarters</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eda ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">The headquarters or main locations of our target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization may seem like an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1edb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">obvious choice because we’<span class="_ _0"/>ll most likely be that much closer to target assets. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1edc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, these types of locations tend to recei<span class="_ _0"/>ve much more ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort when it comes to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1edd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical security<span class="_ _2"/>. It might also make it more difcult because there are likely to be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ede ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">many more authorities at these locations. <span class="_ _0"/>This doesn’t mean we should a<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>oid main </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1edf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">locations; it’<span class="_ _2"/>s just something we need to take into consideration.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1ee0 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Choosing Facility Asset T<span class="_ _3"/>argets</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">After choosing the target locations we’<span class="_ _0"/>ll physically inltrate, we’ll want to dene </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and prepare for the assets we’ll tar<span class="_ _0"/>get once inside. Of course, in some cases, we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">won’<span class="_ _0"/>t know e<span class="_ _0"/>xactly what we’ll tar<span class="_ _0"/>get once we’<span class="_ _2"/>re inside, but it’<span class="_ _2"/>s good to not only </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a plan, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut also to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e contingency plans for the follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing specic asset types. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Some of the most common intermediate target assets include the follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>