<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf21" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="21"><div class="pc pc21 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x29 h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">10<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously mentioned, a threat can take on many forms. In this book, we </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">elaborate on the specic manifestation of an <span class="_ _2"/>APT that takes the form of an individual </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">actor—that is, a single person who can act alone. Of course, <span class="_ _2"/>APT hackers do exist </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">within groups and will continue to be recruited by nation-states and organized crime. </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Like<span class="_ _0"/>wise, it is completely feasible that a collecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve group of smart hack<span class="_ _0"/>ers could </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to be just as ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e as a single <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, we are at a pi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>otal point in our ev<span class="_ _0"/>olution in which we’ll see an increase </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in the number of indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals who obtain and use an advanced c<span class="_ _0"/>yber<span class="_ _0"/>-skill set to </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">target and compromise specic or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations. <span class="_ _0"/>This increase in individuals will also </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">manifest itself in an increase in the efcacy and impact of c<span class="_ _0"/>yber-attacks.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The true impact of some of these attacks, beyond the immediate one to the </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">compromised organization, will ripple through entire countries and, in some cases, </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y276 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the world. <span class="_ _2"/>As you’ll learn in the next chapter<span class="_ _2"/>, some of these world-changing attacks </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y277 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e already occurred. The problem is that the<span class="_ _0"/>y are only going to increase, again </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y278 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">both in number and in impact.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y279 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Paradoxically though, e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en with the number of <span class="_ _0"/>APT hack<span class="_ _0"/>ers and cyber<span class="_ _0"/>-attacks </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">increasing, obtaining the most rele<span class="_ _0"/>vant data has pro<span class="_ _0"/>ven to be a difcult challenge, </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">and will most likely remain so. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y organizations are v<span class="_ _0"/>ery hesitant or unwilling to </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y27c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">share the mere fact that the<span class="_ _0"/>y hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been compromised, let alone any details as to the </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y27d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">source or method of the attack.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y27e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ultimately<span class="_ _2"/>, con<span class="_ _0"/>ve<span class="_ _0"/>ying the ease with which an indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual can obtain the necessary </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y27f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">skill set to target and compromise an<span class="_ _0"/>y target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization is the singular point of this </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y280 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">book. In that vein, this is not meant to imply that the techniques co<span class="_ _0"/>vered in this book </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y281 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">represent the only means to systematically target and compromise an or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y282 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">On the contrary<span class="_ _2"/>, it is acknowledged that the attack<span class="_ _0"/>er/defender wrestling match is </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y283 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in constant ux and the attacks that work today may cease to work tomorro<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _3"/>, only </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y284 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to be resurrected a year from no<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>. It is, howe<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, believ<span class="_ _0"/>ed that the vast majority of </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y285 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">strategies, tactics, techniques, tools, and attacks co<span class="_ _0"/>vered in this book will remain </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y286 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e for a considerable amount of time.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y287 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In this book, we will not cov<span class="_ _0"/>er e<span class="_ _0"/>very possible attack, e<span class="_ _0"/>very adv<span class="_ _0"/>anced technique, </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y288 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or all possible iterations of the cov<span class="_ _0"/>ered attacks. Instead, we start from a foundation </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y289 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of utilizing the simplest attacks with the only requirement being the efcacy of </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y28a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the attack. <span class="_ _2"/>And as you’ll see, the ability to acquire this “advanced” skill set is </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y28b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">well within the grasp of e<span class="_ _0"/>very indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual. It is from this perspecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve that I hope to </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y28c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">demonstrate to the reader the almost absurdly simple ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort required to reach the </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y28d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">point where any or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization can be targeted and compromised, and thus the f<span class="_ _0"/>act </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y28e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">that e<span class="_ _0"/>very or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization today is vulnerable to a targeted attack by an attack<span class="_ _0"/>er with </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y28f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">very fe<span class="_ _0"/>w resources.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>