<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf14a" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="14a"><div class="pc pc14a w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">307</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y328 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Computers</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y329 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Computers, laptops, tablets, etc., are all obvious choices for assets that we will either </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">take with us or backdoor while on site. <span class="_ _0"/>These assets will typically giv<span class="_ _0"/>e us a lot of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">very v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable information. F<span class="_ _0"/>or example, be<span class="_ _0"/>yond providing a strong pi<span class="_ _0"/>vot point, we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can typically obtain cached credentials. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>re also almost guaranteed to obtain at </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">least one set of v<span class="_ _0"/>alid credentials from the end user that uses that system.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y32e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It’<span class="_ _2"/>s a common saying in the underground that the only computer that can’t be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y32f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">hacked is the one that’<span class="_ _2"/>s not plugged in. W<span class="_ _3"/>ell, with physical access, the computer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y330 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">doesn’t e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en need to be plugged in for it to prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to be extremely v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable. <span class="_ _2"/>And as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y331 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">you’ll see once you ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve physical access to a computer<span class="_ _2"/>, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s only a matter of time </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y332 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">before you completely compromise any security measures for that system.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1ee6 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Smart Phones</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Smart phones of<span class="_ _0"/>fer a unique set of challenges and opportunities, but can denitely </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">be v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable target assets. <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _3"/>ake a moment to think about all of the data on an av<span class="_ _0"/>erage </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ee9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">smart phone. Besides e-mail, we might nd a virtual pri<span class="_ _0"/>vate netw<span class="_ _0"/>ork (VPN) or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">remote access apps, text messages, v<span class="_ _0"/>oice mail, etc., not to mention the myriad of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eeb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">apps that might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e sensiti<span class="_ _0"/>ve information, not the least of which could be weakly </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eec ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">stored credentials.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1eed ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ofﬁces</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">On our list of targets may also be indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual ofce rooms of ke<span class="_ _0"/>y indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">groups. These areas might contain computers that we can backdoor or tak<span class="_ _0"/>e; in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">addition, these areas can prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to be perfect bugging locations.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1ef1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Also, don’t for<span class="_ _0"/>get the possibility that there may be paper documents a<span class="_ _0"/>vailable in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ofces that can be extremely v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable. <span class="_ _0"/>The cliché of nding passwords on sticky </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">notes under a ke<span class="_ _0"/>yboard, posted to a monitor<span class="_ _0"/>, or in a desk drawer is much more </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">commonplace than most security administrators wish. Plenty of data might be on </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a printed document besides credentials that could be useful to us. Remember that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven while inside a facility<span class="_ _3"/>, you’<span class="_ _0"/>re still performing reconnaissance against the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization, and this data might be v<span class="_ _0"/>ery useful for ne<span class="_ _0"/>w spear-phishing attacks with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1ef8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">additional information.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1ef9 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">V<span class="_ _0"/>ehicles</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1efa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">V<span class="_ _1b"/>ehicles can prove to be e<span class="_ _0"/>xcellent locations to compromise. If you need to track the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1efb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical location of an indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual, then obviously tracking their v<span class="_ _0"/>ehicle can be one </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1efc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">easy way of accomplishing that. In addition, man<span class="_ _0"/>y times extremely v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable assets </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>