<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf14c" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="14c"><div class="pc pc14c w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">309</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">parties from performing specic actions. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, a razor wire fence might deter </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">someone from scaling a fence so that they don’<span class="_ _0"/>t injure themselves.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">I want you to take a moment to think about all of the common physical security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">controls you encounter: locks, guards, guns, fences, cameras, alarms, safes, etc. If </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you really think about it, you might nd that at their core, 99 percent of pre<span class="_ _0"/>ventati<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">measures are either implicitly deterrent defenses or<span class="_ _0"/>, from our perspecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">exclusi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ely deterrent defenses. Locks are a good example, because for the most part, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">door locks don’t actually pre<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ent unauthorized access; instead, they just deter an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">unsophisticated or undetermined criminal from attempting to bypass them.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Security cameras might be a more obvious e<span class="_ _0"/>xample. Security cameras could </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">almost be considered primarily deterrents. I hav<span class="_ _0"/>e encountered so many f<span class="_ _0"/>acilities </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that only check their security camera footage if something obviously criminal has </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">occurred. If you need further proof, just look on the Internet for all of the options </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for fake cameras that you simply put in conspicuous places to scare of<span class="_ _0"/>f w<span class="_ _0"/>ould-be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">intruders.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y39e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">This idea that most physical security controls are really used as deterrents </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">helps us understand the psychology and culture of target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations. In some </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organizations, all of the emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yees are aware of the innate requirement for security<span class="_ _3"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Of course, there will still be indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals at these organizations who are, for lack </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of a better term, “lazy eggs”; the<span class="_ _0"/>y’<span class="_ _0"/>re not bad e<span class="_ _0"/>ggs, they’<span class="_ _2"/>re not doing anything </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">malicious to hurt their organization; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, they simply don’t get the reality of and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">implications of their security-related decisions.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Or<span class="_ _0"/>, more accurately<span class="_ _2"/>, many emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yees might think that no one would actually try </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to break into their building, that it only happens in mo<span class="_ _0"/>vies. So many people f<span class="_ _0"/>all into </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y19a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">this trap of thinking that no one would be stupid enough to try to physically break in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsc ws17">to their organization.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">That’<span class="_ _2"/>s a funny phrase—break in—and also helps understand the mindset of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f18 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">most people. <span class="_ _2"/>As <span class="_ _0"/>APT hackers, we choose to use the phrase “physical inltration” </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f19 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">because nine times out of ten, there is no breaking required—more of a charismatic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bypassing. <span class="_ _2"/>As an exercise, ask a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w people what they w<span class="_ _0"/>ould label a crime where </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y580 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">someone is in a building the<span class="_ _0"/>y shouldn’t ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e access to. <span class="_ _2"/>As your next weekly </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y581 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">afrmation, I want you to look into the mirror and tell yourself, “I don’<span class="_ _0"/>t break in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y582 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to places. I charismatically bypass physical security controls. Because I’m good </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y583 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">enough, I’m smart enough, and doggone it, people like me.<span class="_ _3"/>”</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y584 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">This concept of using physical security controls primarily as deterrents is a perfect </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f1a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example of social omniscience. Understanding these psychological choices behind </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f1b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsc ws17">these physical security defenses is our target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>