<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf14f" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="14f"><div class="pc pc14f w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">312<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although it might seem more difcult to social engineer someone face to face, it </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can actually be easier in some ways. I ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a higher percentage success rate of social </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">engineering in person than ov<span class="_ _0"/>er the phone. I attribute this mostly to the f<span class="_ _0"/>act that it’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">easier to build trust and rapport when speaking f<span class="_ _0"/>ace to face with someone, and when </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">face to face, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s easier to exploit an indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual’<span class="_ _2"/>s assumptions of what indications </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of trust and likeability are. People tend to be more suspicious of phone calls just </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">because they are a<span class="_ _0"/>ware of the anon<span class="_ _0"/>ymity that it affords the caller<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The most important things are to prepare, keep it simple, and practice, practice, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">practice. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e will cover se<span class="_ _0"/>veral specic things rooted in science and psychology here; </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, none of it means an<span class="_ _0"/>ything if it isn’t actionable or usable.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1f5f ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Physical Social Engineering Foundations</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remember that e<span class="_ _0"/>ven when you’<span class="_ _2"/>re not interacting with a person at the target site, you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are still social engineering! I think that needs repeating: Even when you are not f<span class="_ _0"/>ace </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y6e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to face with someone at the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get site, you must assume that you are being observed. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y6e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Thus, e<span class="_ _0"/>verything you do must be considered ahead of time to ensure success.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y7c8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This does not mean you should get freaked out and o<span class="_ _0"/>veranalytical, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut it does </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2b6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mean you need to prepare. <span class="_ _2"/>As always, though, remember to keep it simple. <span class="_ _0"/>There </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2b7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are certain elements that make this an e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely unique phase from all other phases. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y6c0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When on premises or dealing with a confrontation, your adrenaline might be going; </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y6c1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’ll need to think fast, all the while remaining calm and decisi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y6c2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Beyond preparing for the technical pieces that we discussed pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously<span class="_ _2"/>, such as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2bb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">target f<span class="_ _0"/>acilities, locations, assets, and means of defeating physical controls, you must </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2bc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">also prepare your story and prepare for a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w possible problems. <span class="_ _0"/>A good starting </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2bd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">point for things to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e at the ready include</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1f60 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1f61 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Having badges prepared</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1f62 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1f63 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Printed materials corroborating your story (business cards, e-mails, etc.)</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1f64 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1f65 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Be ready with names to drop of indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals who are away</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y1f66 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y1f67 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Be ready with multiple contingency stories</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1f68 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Social Engineering: Exit Strategies</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f69 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>our preparation should include how you will respond if someone acts too </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f6a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">suspicious in a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w distinct physical areas. The reason why you must consider a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f6b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical areas is that your story might need to be dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent if you are confronted in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f6c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a more or less restricted area. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if you are confronted by a receptionist </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f6d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">before entering a facility<span class="_ _2"/>, you might need a dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent story than if you are confronted </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>