<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf151" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="151"><div class="pc pc151 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">314<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Of course, the main exception to this rule is someone who is required to secure a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical area and thus must confront someone. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s funny ho<span class="_ _0"/>w often I meet </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security guards who still nd it uncomfortable to truly confront someone beyond the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">token actions of asking for a badge, ID, or who you are visiting in a facility<span class="_ _3"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The ability to confront someone is also typically not something attributed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">exclusi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ely with real authority<span class="_ _2"/>. That is to say<span class="_ _2"/>, just because someone might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e real </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">authority at a target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization does not mean they will necessarily confront you. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if the CEO of a medium-to-large compan<span class="_ _0"/>y took e<span class="_ _0"/>very opportunity to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">confront someone they did not kno<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>, they probably w<span class="_ _0"/>ouldn’t get much w<span class="_ _0"/>ork done.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y162 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For our purposes, there are tw<span class="_ _0"/>o basic types of confrontation: token questioning </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y163 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and security confrontations. T<span class="_ _3"/>o ensure our surviv<span class="_ _0"/>al, we must learn to recognize the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">two and be prepared for both.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y237 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The most obvious tok<span class="_ _0"/>en questions are the ones we should be best prepared for<span class="_ _0"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y238 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if our inltration requires us to go through an area such as a guard </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y167 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">station in a parking lot, lobby security guards, or receptionists, then we’ll simply use </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y168 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the story we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve prepared.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y169 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The real trick is distinguishing between token questioning and confrontations </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">when they are une<span class="_ _0"/>xpected. Common token inquiries will start with something like, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“Excuse me, can I help you nd anything?” <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _3"/>oken questioning may still in<span class="_ _0"/>volv<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">multiple questions and a little back and forth, but this does not mean the person is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y23c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">suspicious of you.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1f80 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>oken questioning typically does not mean the person asking you the question </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f81 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is sincerely suspicious of you. Instead, in reality<span class="_ _2"/>, the person is looking to do the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f82 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">minimum possible to put their mind at ease. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can think of it this way<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>When an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f83 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">employee notices an unkno<span class="_ _0"/>wn person in an area in which they feel “required” to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f84 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">confront them—by company polic<span class="_ _0"/>y or just assumption—they might feel uneasy </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f85 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">because they are being forced to do something unnatural, that is, to confront you. <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _3"/>o </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f86 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">remov<span class="_ _0"/>e this uneasy feeling, they will ask you a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w token questions and mak<span class="_ _0"/>e sure </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f87 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">there is nothing “suspicious” about your actions.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1f88 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Thus, to deal with token questioning, your goal should be to simply remo<span class="_ _0"/>ve that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f89 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tension, to make that person feel easy and comfortable. Note that although there </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are other specic scenarios where you might exacerbate someone’<span class="_ _2"/>s uncomfortable </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">feeling to get them to do what you want, this will almost ne<span class="_ _0"/>ver be the case when </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">being physically confronted. If you make someone feel more uncomfortable, the<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">might simply leav<span class="_ _0"/>e the con<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ersation and go alert someone else to respond to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“suspicious person” they just spok<span class="_ _0"/>e with.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1f8f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">An example of tok<span class="_ _0"/>en questioning might help to make this clearer<span class="_ _2"/>. Follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing is an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f90 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">actual dialog between myself and a doctor at a hospital facility that I was performing </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>