<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf155" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="155"><div class="pc pc155 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">318<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">As an example, during a physical penetration test, I planned to trick an emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yee </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">into letting me in to a restricted area to install a wireless access point. The tar<span class="_ _0"/>get </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ofce was part of a lar<span class="_ _0"/>ger ofce building with other b<span class="_ _0"/>usinesses. I rang the ofce </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">doorbell at the main entrance and waited for the person to arri<span class="_ _0"/>ve. <span class="_ _2"/>After a minute, I </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">heard a voice from right behind me say<span class="_ _3"/>, “Can I help you?”</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I had assumed that the door was for their neighboring b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness, but w<span class="_ _0"/>as obviously </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mistaken. <span class="_ _0"/>When the person spoke, it startled me so much that it completely thre<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">me of<span class="_ _0"/>f my game. I turned around and started explaining to the employee that I w<span class="_ _0"/>as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws20">there to install a wireless access point, but I could tell my w<span class="_ _0"/>ords and my actions were </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">broken and not b<span class="_ _0"/>uilding rapport with this gentleman. Not my best performance to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">say the least.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I literally just stopped mid-sentence, took an exaggerated breath, and said, “I’m </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sorry<span class="_ _2"/>, I’m kind of frantic today<span class="_ _2"/>. I just drove three hours from the city to get here </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and I was running a little late, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut my boss would kill me if I didn’<span class="_ _0"/>t get this installed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">today<span class="_ _2"/>. I was supposed to be here earlier<span class="_ _0"/>, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut I got a late start. I promise this will be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">really quick.<span class="_ _2"/>” He just gav<span class="_ _0"/>e me a smile and said he had to leav<span class="_ _0"/>e soon and wanted to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">kno<span class="_ _0"/>w how long it w<span class="_ _0"/>ould take. I told him that it shouldn’<span class="_ _0"/>t take more than ten minutes </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and that I would be quick for him and that I was v<span class="_ _0"/>ery thankful for his help.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y27c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As you can see, as long as you hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a reasonable explanation that is congruent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd7b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with the way you are percei<span class="_ _0"/>ved, you can be successful in social engineering almost </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fd6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">regardless of what that perception is. In this case, although I w<span class="_ _0"/>as acting a little </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">frazzled, I had a reasonable explanation why that w<span class="_ _0"/>as so.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1fd7 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Body Language</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fd8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When social engineering in person, your body language and the body language </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of the person you are speaking with will provide much more insight into the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y6c4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">communication than any of the w<span class="_ _0"/>ords spoken. Many studies ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e shown that the v<span class="_ _0"/>ast </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2c0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">majority of human communication is through body language, and not verbal. <span class="_ _2"/>Again </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd80 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">remember that you were born with the skills to interpret body language; you might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">just need to de<span class="_ _0"/>velop this.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd yd81 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the best books I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve ev<span class="_ _0"/>er read on body language was written by a former </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fd9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">FBI agent Joe Nav<span class="_ _0"/>arro titled <span class="ff5">What Every BOD<span class="_ _2"/>Y Is Saying<span class="ff4"> (William Morro<span class="_ _0"/>w </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fda ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Paperbacks, 2008). In the book, Joe e<span class="_ _0"/>xplains that there are no physical actions that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fdb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">positi<span class="_ _0"/>vely sho<span class="_ _0"/>w that a person is lying—a good thing for us. Instead, there are only </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd85 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">two major cate<span class="_ _0"/>gories that all body language falls under<span class="_ _0"/>, either comfort or discomfort.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1c82 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e can use these two indicators to assist in determining whether the person we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fdc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are speaking with is feeling comfortable or uncomfortable, and we can use this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fdd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to gauge whether or not we are building rapport, whether the<span class="_ _0"/>y trust us, like us, or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fde ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">distrust or dislike us. K<span class="_ _0"/>eep in mind that all body language and communication you </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>