<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf23" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="23"><div class="pc pc23 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x3b h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">12<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There isn’t one single f<span class="_ _0"/>actor that makes it possible to compromise any </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization today<span class="_ _3"/>. There isn’t one single vulnerability<span class="_ _3"/>, issue, or attack method. </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Instead, there are many contrib<span class="_ _0"/>uting factors that, in aggre<span class="_ _0"/>gate, allow an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to hack any tar<span class="_ _0"/>get. Follo<span class="_ _0"/>wing are the foundations we ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve b<span class="_ _0"/>uilt our world upon that </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">are leading to the cold, hard truth that we li<span class="_ _0"/>ve without an<span class="_ _0"/>y effecti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e security against </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">APT hackers. It is v<span class="_ _0"/>ery important that you understand all of these truths, as they </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">af<span class="_ _0"/>fect ev<span class="_ _0"/>eryone. Not just organizations lar<span class="_ _0"/>ge and small, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut individuals too.</div><div class="t m0 x3c h4 y2ad ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The Impact of Our Y<span class="_ _3"/>outh</div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2ae ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Do not for a second forget ho<span class="_ _0"/>w young the information security eld—and </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2af ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">technology in general—is. It’<span class="_ _2"/>s easy to forget simply because the Internet is so deeply </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olved in our daily li<span class="_ _0"/>ves, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut the Internet and modern digital technology in general </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e not been around for very long.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y2b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Don’t misinterpret the f<span class="_ _0"/>act that technology is young and think that it makes the </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">current insecurity of our world okay or just a small part of gro<span class="_ _0"/>wing pains that we </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will quickly gro<span class="_ _0"/>w out of. Instead, you should understand the long-term implications </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this insecurity has on our li<span class="_ _0"/>ves. <span class="_ _0"/>The foundation of so much of what we rely on is </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">riddled with serious vulnerabilities.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y2b7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _3"/>es, the foundation of the Internet is older than 1993, but man<span class="_ _0"/>y people consider </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">1993 as the ofcial year the <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>orld W<span class="_ _0"/>ide <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>eb was born, which was when the Internet </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2b9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">started gaining in popularity<span class="_ _2"/>. That means we ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve been entangled for just o<span class="_ _0"/>ver 25 </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2ba ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">short years. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e have gone from w<span class="_ _0"/>atching web pages load line by line in the span of </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2bb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w minutes ov<span class="_ _0"/>er a blazingly fast 28.8K modem to ber<span class="_ _0"/>-optic connections being </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2bc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">commonplace for homes with the ability to do<span class="_ _0"/>wnload entire movies in under a </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2bd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">minute—and all in 25 years!</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y2be ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This simply means that some of the necessary gro<span class="_ _0"/>wing pains hav<span class="_ _0"/>e not been </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2bf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">experienced yet—gro<span class="_ _0"/>wing pains that will be the catalyst for change. <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _2"/>echnologies </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and laws that need to be put in place to x these insecurities simply ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve not been </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">created yet. Unfortunately<span class="_ _2"/>, though, things are going to get worse before they get </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">better<span class="_ _2"/>. In the next chapter<span class="_ _0"/>, we’ll e<span class="_ _0"/>xplore some of the real-world e<span class="_ _0"/>vents that point to </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the fact that the storm is gaining in intensity and getting closer<span class="_ _2"/>. In addition, because </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">current ubiquitous technologies hav<span class="_ _0"/>e not existed for v<span class="_ _0"/>ery long, the defenses that </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will be ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e simply ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve not been created yet. <span class="_ _0"/>These defenses will manifest </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">themselves in technology<span class="_ _3"/>, processes, education, and the way people use technology<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">among others. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e are currently asking too much of our defenders. T<span class="_ _2"/>echnology has </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y2c8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">de<span class="_ _0"/>veloped too quickly without ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve consideration for security<span class="_ _2"/>.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>