<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf160" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="160"><div class="pc pc160 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">329</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">motions, such as starting from the back and raking forward in one action, or starting </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">from the front and moving to the back. <span class="_ _1b"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can also try more of a plunging action </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w strokes forward and back. <span class="_ _0"/>The real trick to this technique is to nd the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">perfect amount of tension.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Lock picking is a physical skill. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou must simply build your muscle memory<span class="_ _3"/>, and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the only way to do this is with practice. Just understand that e<span class="_ _0"/>very lock will ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e its </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">o<span class="_ _0"/>wn personality<span class="_ _2"/>. Sometimes, older locks might be very loose and easy to pick; other </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">times, they might be a little rusty or hard to get to respond just right. Just practice, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">practice, and practice some more to get used to the dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent feelings.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y3c7 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Pin T<span class="_ _3"/>umbler Lock Bumping</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Another method for manipulating pin tumbler locks is the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey method. By </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">using a specially designed “bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey<span class="_ _3"/>,<span class="_ _0"/>” inserting it into the k<span class="_ _0"/>eyway<span class="_ _3"/>, and striking it </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sharply<span class="_ _2"/>, you can cause the key pins to slam into the dri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er pins, and the driv<span class="_ _0"/>er pins </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will shoot upward while the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y pins stay in place. If all of the dri<span class="_ _0"/>ver pins rise abo<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the shear line, you can turn the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y and plug and open the lock. This is the same </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ef<span class="_ _0"/>fect you might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e seen on a billiard table in which the cue ball strikes another </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ball and the cue ball stops while the other ball takes all of the ener<span class="_ _0"/>gy and rolls </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">forward.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y20a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The unique part of the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey is that all of the v<span class="_ _0"/>alle<span class="_ _0"/>ys hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been led down </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to their lo<span class="_ _0"/>west possible height. This allo<span class="_ _0"/>ws the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y to slide into the ke<span class="_ _0"/>yway without </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">potentially raising any pins too high. Each lock type will still require its o<span class="_ _0"/>wn specic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey<span class="_ _3"/>, as the keyway must still match as well as the v<span class="_ _0"/>alley positions.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3d2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A fe<span class="_ _0"/>w techniques hav<span class="_ _0"/>e worked well for me in the past. First, you can start with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey entirely in the k<span class="_ _0"/>eyway so that you can’<span class="_ _0"/>t push it any f<span class="_ _0"/>arther<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _2"/>Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">then strike the b<span class="_ _0"/>ump ke<span class="_ _0"/>y hard and fast and attempt to turn the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can also start </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">by pushing the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey all the w<span class="_ _0"/>ay into the keyw<span class="_ _0"/>ay and then pulling it back either </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">less than one pin length or one full pin length. In my experience, these tend to be the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sweet spots for the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey where you can impart the right amount of force on </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the pins.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Finally<span class="_ _2"/>, the last important piece is when to attempt to turn the bump ke<span class="_ _0"/>y after </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">striking the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey<span class="_ _3"/>. <span class="_ _2"/>Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou can either apply subtle pressure and maintain it while </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’<span class="_ _2"/>re striking the bump key<span class="_ _3"/>, or you can strike the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey and then apply turning </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">pressure. Both hav<span class="_ _0"/>e prov<span class="_ _0"/>en successful for me on dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent locks, and you should </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attempt all approaches of bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey insertion depth and turning pressure when </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attempting to use the bump method.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3df ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ultimately<span class="_ _2"/>, you can really strike the bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey with an<span class="_ _0"/>ything hard; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, there </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w good custom tools for striking a bump k<span class="_ _0"/>ey<span class="_ _2"/>, like the one in Figure 9-11. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>