<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf24" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="24"><div class="pc pc24 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x34 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 1: Introduction<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">13</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The Economics of (In)security</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the most important and simple truths in this technological war is that you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">simply can’t af<span class="_ _0"/>ford to pre<span class="_ _0"/>vent a successful attack from an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _2"/>. Not only is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it extremely costly to e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en attempt—currently<span class="_ _2"/>, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s actually impossible to pre<span class="_ _0"/>vent a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">compromise from an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="fs5">.</span> The mathematics behind risk management simply </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">breaks apart when accounting for an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Let’<span class="_ _2"/>s rst dene the basic math behind risk management. Generally<span class="_ _0"/>, e<span class="_ _0"/>xpenditures </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on security in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olve spending mone<span class="_ _0"/>y (and resources) to protect a greater amount </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of money (or resources) from being lost. If you ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a million dollars in the bank, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’<span class="_ _2"/>re not going to spend that million dollars to protect itself. Likewise, if a b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">generates a million dollars a year in re<span class="_ _0"/>venue, the<span class="_ _0"/>y can’t spend a million dollars </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">annually on security<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In this book, you’ll learn the attack v<span class="_ _0"/>ectors and attack techniques to employ to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">become an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker and compromise any tar<span class="_ _0"/>get of choice. Once you hav<span class="_ _0"/>e this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">understanding, you’ll realize that at man<span class="_ _0"/>y lev<span class="_ _0"/>els, companies and indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals simply </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can’t af<span class="_ _0"/>ford to pre<span class="_ _0"/>vent the attack methods you’<span class="_ _0"/>ll use.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Why is it impossible to pre<span class="_ _0"/>vent a successful <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker attack? <span class="_ _2"/>Are the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">technologies capable of defending against an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker attack simply too </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">expensi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e? The cost of technology is part of the issue, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut it’<span class="_ _2"/>s not the entire picture. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although it would be absurdly e<span class="_ _0"/>xpensiv<span class="_ _0"/>e to implement all of the cutting-edge </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">defensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve technologies e<span class="_ _0"/>ven if you were able to do so, these current technologies will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not stop the attacks discussed in this book.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2df ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Security vs. Risk Management</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many people, including man<span class="_ _0"/>y experts in the information security eld, confuse </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security and risk management. <span class="_ _0"/>When discussing security in the context of a b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you must understand that a business is not in b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness to “be secure.<span class="_ _3"/>” Spending </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">money on security does not directly generate more re<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>enue<span class="fs5">.</span> Instead, businesses must </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">perform risk management to minimize the risk of doing business to an acceptable </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">le<span class="_ _0"/>vel. Processes like patch management, vulnerability management, system </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hardening, and incident response are no-brainers for reducing risk, but essentially<span class="_ _3"/>, a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">business cannot remo<span class="_ _0"/>ve all the risk from technology<span class="_ _3"/>, and obviously<span class="_ _2"/>, technology is an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2e8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">essential part of e<span class="_ _0"/>very b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness today<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">It is this very f<span class="_ _0"/>act that allows an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker to hack an<span class="_ _0"/>y target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Businesses simply can’t spend enough mone<span class="_ _0"/>y to defend against an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in an ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e or foolproof way<span class="_ _3"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>A business may remo<span class="_ _0"/>ve certain attack paths and </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>