<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf16b" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="16b"><div class="pc pc16b w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">340<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">support longer and more complex pins as well as additional security-related features, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">such as the possibility of being centrally monitored for failed entry attempts. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">brute force might not always be the best option for these doors. Instead, taking an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven simpler and more pragmatic approach to compromising these doors might be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">called for<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It might be as simple as planting a video bug at these locations and w<span class="_ _0"/>aiting for a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">v<span class="_ _0"/>alid user to enter the PIN. <span class="_ _0"/>As no one will be around the user as the<span class="_ _0"/>y enter the PIN, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the user is far less likely to shield their acti<span class="_ _0"/>vities as the<span class="_ _0"/>y enter the code. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e already </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">discussed some of the possible camera types and options for hiding these cameras </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in a pre<span class="_ _0"/>vious section, so remember to get creativ<span class="_ _0"/>e and hide the camera in a way that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will blend into the en<span class="_ _0"/>vironment the door is in.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou might nd the scramble-type keypads in en<span class="_ _0"/>vironments that are v<span class="_ _0"/>ery security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">conscious. The scramble pads present some unique challenges e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en when using </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cameras. Because the code changes after each use, we can’t rely simply on which </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">part of the ke<span class="_ _0"/>ypad we see the user touching. In addition, some of these pads are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">designed well so that the digits can only be seen from a limited angle on either side.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For most PIN entry systems, we might also ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve the possibility of using thermal </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">imaging to monitor for the heat left behind by ngerprints. These thermal imaging </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">systems detect the heat and intensity of the heat of a target, as well as picking up </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the heat residue left behind, such as when your nger touches a surface. <span class="_ _0"/>This heat </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">residue can actually last for a meaningful amount of time and allo<span class="_ _0"/>w us to still see the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">locations touched well after the door has closed. The main difculty with this tactic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y148b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is that good thermal imaging cameras can easily cost a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w thousand dollars.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Of course, you can always shoulder<span class="_ _0"/>-surf the pin from someone as the<span class="_ _0"/>y enter the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">door or obtain the PIN through social engineering. But at this point, you should </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">already kno<span class="_ _0"/>w that.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2143 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Door Crash Bars</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2144 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are se<span class="_ _0"/>veral common types of touch bars, which look similar to e<span class="_ _0"/>xit-door </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2145 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">crash bars. Crash bars are typically seen on re exit doors and allo<span class="_ _0"/>w a user to push </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2146 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">anywhere on the bar<span class="_ _2"/>, which depresses into the crash bar and unlocks the door<span class="_ _0"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>These </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2147 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are typically used in support of re codes because they allo<span class="_ _0"/>w a user to quickly e<span class="_ _0"/>xit </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2148 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">through the door in an emergenc<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>. Crash bars work on a purely mechanical function; </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2149 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the<span class="_ _0"/>y typically don’t need a lot of force to open.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y214a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>ouch bars, on the other hand, are typically used in conjunction with magnetic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y214b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">locks. There is almost zero force required to unlock a touch bar door; in f<span class="_ _0"/>act, with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y214c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">most of them, you can literally just touch and the magnetic lock is released. The </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y214d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">majority of these touch bars work on capaciti<span class="_ _0"/>ve touch or heat.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>