<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf16c" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="16c"><div class="pc pc16c w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">341</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Capaciti<span class="_ _0"/>ve touch works just lik<span class="_ _0"/>e the screens on most smart phones and tablets. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>o open these doors, they need to be touched by a decent electric conductor like a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">human nger<span class="_ _2"/>. If you’<span class="_ _0"/>re looking for something thin to slip in and acti<span class="_ _0"/>vate these door </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bars, you can simply use the end of a stylus pen.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Heat-based touch bars simply detect changes in heat. If you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve ev<span class="_ _0"/>er used one of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">these in cold weather<span class="_ _0"/>, you’ll notice the<span class="_ _0"/>y ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a tendency to stick and not detect a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">lighter touch. T<span class="_ _3"/>o bypass heat sensor touch bars, you can use something as simple as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a heated rag. The good thing is that none of these touch bars require the same force </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that would normally be required to open an e<span class="_ _0"/>xit door crash bar<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y1931 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">RFID T<span class="_ _3"/>okens and Cards</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1932 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">It is becoming much more common to nd organizations using RFID cards or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1933 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tokens for user access to facilities and rooms. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y of these cards utilize radio </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1934 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">frequency ID (RFID) technology and ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve no po<span class="_ _0"/>wer themselv<span class="_ _0"/>es, but instead recei<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1935 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">their po<span class="_ _0"/>wer from the associated readers. Users simply bring the card within a few </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y214e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">inches or “tap” the card against the reader<span class="_ _0"/>, and the information on the card is sent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y214f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">unencrypted to the reader<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1938 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w common frequencies for RFID technologies; howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the v<span class="_ _0"/>ast </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1939 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">majority operate in either 125 KHz or 13.56 MHz. <span class="_ _2"/>A two-minute search on the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y193a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Internet will re<span class="_ _0"/>veal plenty of RFID read and write de<span class="_ _0"/>vices, like the one sho<span class="_ _0"/>wn in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2150 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Figure 9-20. The basic purpose of these de<span class="_ _0"/>vices is to get close enough to read the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2151 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">v<span class="_ _0"/>alue of an RFID badge, such as an HID Prox card, which operates at the 125-KHz </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2152 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">frequency<span class="_ _3"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2153 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For the most part, there is no cryptographic algorithm for these technologies. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2154 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Instead, the RFID tag or card obtains po<span class="_ _0"/>wer from the reader and a unique identifying </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2155 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“code” or number is sent to the reader<span class="_ _2"/>. Thus, if we capture the code once, we can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2156 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">replay it back to the reader and hav<span class="_ _0"/>e the same pri<span class="_ _0"/>vileges as the le<span class="_ _0"/>gitimate user<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2157 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Aside from cloning an existing de<span class="_ _0"/>vice, we might still be able to circumv<span class="_ _0"/>ent these </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2158 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">RFID entry doors by using a slightly modied tailgating method. I’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e been in se<span class="_ _0"/>veral </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2159 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">en<span class="_ _0"/>vironments where e<span class="_ _0"/>very user is trained and required to badge in, as well as ensure </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y215a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that anyone who enters behind them has also badged in.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y215b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This can actually be an adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage for us. If you watch most users as they enter </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y215c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a door after badging in and wait for the user behind them to badge in, the<span class="_ _0"/>y don’t </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y215d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">actually watch; instead, the<span class="_ _0"/>y listen. If a user successfully badges in, the system giv<span class="_ _0"/>es </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y215e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of<span class="_ _0"/>f a loud single beep. If the user’<span class="_ _0"/>s badge f<span class="_ _0"/>ails for any reason, then a dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent, more </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y215f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“alarming” beep is sounded. So all we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to do is carry a small de<span class="_ _0"/>vice that will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">duplicate the tone made upon a successful badge in, make the motion to<span class="_ _0"/>ward the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reader as if we’<span class="_ _2"/>re tapping a legitimate RFID badge, and produce the successful tone.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>