<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf16e" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="16e"><div class="pc pc16e w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">343</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">considered pri<span class="_ _0"/>vate. <span class="_ _2"/>As anyone who has e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er watched a tele<span class="_ _0"/>vision crime sho<span class="_ _0"/>w will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tell you, people leav<span class="_ _0"/>e their ngerprints littered e<span class="_ _0"/>verywhere the<span class="_ _0"/>y go, like some sort of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>vil fairy sprinkling authentication tokens e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>erywhere it goes. Thus, ngerprints can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">be lifted of<span class="_ _0"/>f of almost any surface that the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get user touches. Facial, iris, and retina </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">geometry can easily be obtained using cameras, and voice recordings are as easy to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">obtain as eav<span class="_ _0"/>esdropping.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Second, what are the implications if an attacker is able to copy the biometric </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">information or<span class="_ _0"/>, potentially e<span class="_ _0"/>ven w<span class="_ _0"/>orse, obtain the digital representation of biometric </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">information? It’<span class="_ _2"/>s not as if a person can change their eyeballs or hand geometry like </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they can change a passw<span class="_ _0"/>ord, at least not yet.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been proof-of-concept hacks that ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve compromised specic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y978 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">biometric de<span class="_ _0"/>vices for all of the previously mentioned body parts, and some of them </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y979 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are probably a lot easier than you might expect.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2177 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Fingerprint readers are some of the easiest to circumvent. Obtaining a person’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2178 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ngerprint is a relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely easy task, after which you can make simple f<span class="_ _0"/>ake ngers out </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y97a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of ballistics gelatin, latex, or e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en printed on paper! Some of these systems require a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y97b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">heat source to be present to av<span class="_ _0"/>oid just sticking a plastic nger on the reader<span class="_ _0"/>, so you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can then simply apply the gel, latex, or paper ngerprint to your nger and press </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">do<span class="_ _0"/>wn—it can be that easy! Facial recognition systems ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve been beat by simply </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">holding up a picture of the authorized person. Hand geometry systems hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">circumvented by creating a mold from a person’<span class="_ _2"/>s hand and then creating a fake </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">gelatin hand.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A very interesting e<span class="_ _0"/>xample of bypassing iris scanners was presented by </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Javier Galbally in 2012. He actually started with the digital representation of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">authentication information within the database of the system and then used this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">information to print out an iris that could be scanned and accepted as v<span class="_ _0"/>alid. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">assume what might happen in a high-tech case where this was printed onto a contact </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f18 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">lens.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2179 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Accessing Safes</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">At some point, if your targeted asset is a physical asset, you might ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve to physically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws1d">gain access to and take the asset. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y times, this might in<span class="_ _0"/>volv<span class="_ _0"/>e accessing a physical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">safe to obtain the v<span class="_ _0"/>aluables stored within it.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y217d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The true purpose of a safe is not to pre<span class="_ _0"/>vent someone from opening the safe, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1630 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">rather to make it take too long to mak<span class="_ _0"/>e it feasible for a criminal. <span class="_ _2"/>At the end of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1631 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">day<span class="_ _2"/>, if a safe were completely unbreakable, then what would happen if the legitimate </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1632 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">o<span class="_ _0"/>wner lost the key or for<span class="_ _0"/>got the combination?</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>