<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf16f" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="16f"><div class="pc pc16f w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">344<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As usual, we could easily ll more than an entire book detailing the many </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">methods of opening a safe without possession of the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y or combination, but for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bre<span class="_ _0"/>vity’<span class="_ _0"/>s sak<span class="_ _0"/>e, we’ll cov<span class="_ _0"/>er a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w of the options at a high le<span class="_ _0"/>vel.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Of course, we still hav<span class="_ _0"/>e the traditional methods of destruction, in which we can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y232 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">just break the safe, but that’<span class="_ _2"/>s not very e<span class="_ _0"/>xciting. If the safe is portable, we can simply </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">leav<span class="_ _0"/>e with the safe and then we ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve all the time in the world to open it, or simply </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsc ws17">physically break the safe.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y235 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">More interestingly<span class="_ _2"/>, many modern oor safes and small b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness/home ofces </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y236 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are vulnerable to the drop method. The drop method is ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve on spring-loaded </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">locking mechanisms that prohibit the handle from being turned without the proper </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y163 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">code or ke<span class="_ _0"/>y in these safes. By dropping these safes and turning the handle at the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">proper moment, you can jolt the spring, which temporarily remov<span class="_ _0"/>es the locking </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mechanism, and open the safe.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>ypically<span class="_ _0"/>, this is more of a rocking motion in which you rock the safe forw<span class="_ _0"/>ard and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y167 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">slam it into the ground, either the base or the front of the safe, and turn the handle. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y168 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There hav<span class="_ _0"/>e also been examples in some less e<span class="_ _0"/>xpensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve safes in which you can slam </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y239 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the top with your hand or a mallet and produce the same ef<span class="_ _0"/>fect.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y23a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou can also look for any opportunity to access the interior of the safe through </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y23b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">any opening. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y modern safes with digital ke<span class="_ _0"/>ypads can hav<span class="_ _0"/>e the keypad remo<span class="_ _0"/>ved </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd7b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to open very small openings to the interior of the safe. Sometimes, you may need </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1fd6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to remov<span class="_ _0"/>e a scre<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>, the keypad, or the dial, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut any access to the interior—no </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">matter ho<span class="_ _0"/>w small—can be advantageous. Once you ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e access to the interior<span class="_ _0"/>, you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y280 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can attempt to access and manipulate the locking mechanism on the inside with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y281 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">something as simple as a clothes hanger<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y217e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many of these systems may also ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a simple electrical wire to control the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">locking mechanism. If you can gain access to this wire through any of these small </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2180 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">openings, you might be able to open the lock by applying the correct voltage.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2181 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many safes will ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a pin tumbler lock and k<span class="_ _0"/>ey to open the safe. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou’<span class="_ _0"/>ve already </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f87 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">learned many methods to pick locks, so we w<span class="_ _0"/>on’t repeat that here. <span class="_ _0"/>The other two </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f88 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">most common types of safes you’<span class="_ _2"/>re likely to encounter use dials or PIN entry<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1f89 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Some PIN entry safes hav<span class="_ _0"/>e “reset” b<span class="_ _0"/>uttons, which may be accessible by shimming </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">from the crack in the door panel with a thin piece of metal to hit the reset button and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">change the PIN.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1f8c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Safes with PIN entries suf<span class="_ _0"/>fer from the same vulnerabilities we’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e discussed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2182 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously for other technologies. If we can monitor the location with a video bug, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2183 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">then we can simply observe the code being entered. If we can observ<span class="_ _0"/>e the PIN pad </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2184 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">shortly after being used, we can use thermal imaging to identify the ke<span class="_ _0"/>ys that were </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f90 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">pressed.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>