<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf170" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="170"><div class="pc pc170 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">345</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many of these safes also ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve master codes or “bypass” codes based on the safe’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">serial number in the e<span class="_ _0"/>vent the user for<span class="_ _0"/>gets their PIN. Howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the manufacturer will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">typically require some relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely good proof that you are in fact the le<span class="_ _0"/>gitimate o<span class="_ _0"/>wner </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">before releasing a master reset code. But this does present an interesting alternati<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">from other methods, as we could social engineer or otherwise hack the manufacturer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to obtain this information.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Just as with any other passw<span class="_ _0"/>ord, there are brute-force options for dealing with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">both dial and PIN entry safes. There is a compan<span class="_ _0"/>y that has constructed a dial safe </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">brute-forcer that mounts to the safe and physically turns the dial and attempts e<span class="_ _0"/>very </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">combination of numbers. There ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve also been e<span class="_ _0"/>xamples of creating electronic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">brute-forcing systems for digital ke<span class="_ _0"/>ypad systems by interfacing directly with the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">electronics of the PIN pad.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Be aw<span class="_ _0"/>are, though, that some digital safes will lock after a certain number of failed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">PIN entry attempts. The k<span class="_ _0"/>ey to this is to simply research the specic tar<span class="_ _0"/>get safe </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">before attempting to crack it. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou might nd a very easy method that has already </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">been prov<span class="_ _0"/>en.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2185 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Detective Physical Controls</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remember that detecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve controls simply detect acti<span class="_ _0"/>vity—they don’<span class="_ _0"/>t necessarily </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y6c0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">do anything to respond to these e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ents. Howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, technical detecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve controls are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2b9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">typically congured to perform certain correcti<span class="_ _0"/>ve actions to respond to the detected </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>vents. F<span class="_ _0"/>or example, an alarm system might detect when a door opens, motion is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y388 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">detected, or the sound of glass breaking is detected at which point an alarm might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2186 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sound, authorities notied, and video recorded.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y62c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">In addition, many or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations will hav<span class="_ _0"/>e specic procedures in place when </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2187 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>vents are detected automatically by these systems or when personnel report a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2188 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">specic type of incident. These procedures will typically be central to ho<span class="_ _0"/>w physical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1c7c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security guards perform their jobs. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, they might ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve specic procedures </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2189 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to respond to res, an alarm, or potential intruders. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e won’t alw<span class="_ _0"/>ays be able to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y88c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">in-depth kno<span class="_ _0"/>wledge of what the procedures are before we physically inltrate a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y88d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">building, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut we can be prepared for some of the common technologies and systems </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in place.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y218b ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Guard Rounds </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are technical, albeit very simple, systems for assisting security guards in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">making their rounds, or “tours,<span class="_ _2"/>” of a facility<span class="_ _2"/>. These systems create an accounting of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the date and time that a guard was at a physical spot in a facility<span class="_ _3"/>.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>