<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf171" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="171"><div class="pc pc171 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">346<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">These systems come in all shapes and sizes. Some of the common systems use </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a small handheld de<span class="_ _0"/>vice that looks like a large pen or small w<span class="_ _0"/>and that connects to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">small circular pads mounted on the wall. Some facilities use their RFID badges for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this same or similar functionality<span class="_ _2"/>. I’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e been in some facilities where guards will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">badge into a door any time the<span class="_ _0"/>y respond to or in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>estigate any potential physical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security–related e<span class="_ _0"/>vent to create a time-stamped record of their acti<span class="_ _0"/>vity<span class="_ _2"/>. In some </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">extreme en<span class="_ _2"/>vironments, a guard is required to inv<span class="_ _0"/>estigate any area that someone (e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y201c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">authorized internal employees) ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve attempted to badge into b<span class="_ _0"/>ut were not authorized </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to enter that specic area. T<span class="_ _3"/>ypically<span class="_ _2"/>, they’ll check the area and follo<span class="_ _0"/>w up specically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2190 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with the employee.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2191 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you notice any of these systems near doors or other sensiti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e areas, you can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2192 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">be almost guaranteed that guards include the area in their facility rounds. Being </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2193 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">aw<span class="_ _0"/>are of this is especially important if you hav<span class="_ _0"/>e made your rst inltration into an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2194 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">unkno<span class="_ _0"/>wn area and you don’t kno<span class="_ _0"/>w the schedule for the guard rounds.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2195 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Security Camera Systems</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2196 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Security cameras are usually top of mind for a physical intruder<span class="_ _2"/>. Our methods </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2197 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">for dealing with these ubiquitous physical security de<span class="_ _0"/>vices will go far beyond the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2198 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">av<span class="_ _0"/>erage physical intruder<span class="_ _2"/>. Most commonly<span class="_ _2"/>, these security video monitoring systems </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2199 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are referred to as CCTV systems, or closed-circuit tele<span class="_ _0"/>vision systems. This is a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y219a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">some<span class="_ _0"/>what generic term for most camera and video systems that are not in place for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y219b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">public use like re<span class="_ _0"/>gular broadcast television.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y219c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are se<span class="_ _0"/>veral common types of security cameras that you’<span class="_ _2"/>re likely to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1645 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">encounter<span class="_ _0"/>, both in design and function. Some of the most common cameras are the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y219d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">dome-style cameras like the one sho<span class="_ _0"/>wn in Figure 9-21. I lov<span class="_ _0"/>e to see the traditional </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y219e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">style cameras at a target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization because you can immediately see the direction </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y219f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the cameras are facing, and thus you ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a pretty good idea of ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to a<span class="_ _0"/>void being </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">seen by the camera, or at least ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to minimize your time in the camera’<span class="_ _0"/>s vie<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y20d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It can be a little bit harder to see which way the dome-style cameras are facing. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you’<span class="_ _2"/>re lucky<span class="_ _2"/>, the plastic dome covering the camera will be clear or mostly clear<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">allo<span class="_ _0"/>wing you to see the camera and the direction in which it is aimed. Howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">some cameras, the plastic is tinted, making it very difcult, if not impossible, to see </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the camera inside. Be on the lookout for cameras mounted in a way in which you can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">slip by out of range and undetected.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ou should also note that many of these camera styles are capable of rotating both </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">up and do<span class="_ _0"/>wn and typically with complete 180-degree co<span class="_ _0"/>verage—sometimes the<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can rotate the entire 360 degrees. <span class="_ _0"/>This mov<span class="_ _0"/>ement can be controlled by an operator </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">watching the monitors, or it can be on an automated schedule to scan certain areas. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21aa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws24">In addition to being able to rotate, these cameras typically of<span class="_ _0"/>fer zooming capabilities.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>