<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf173" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="173"><div class="pc pc173 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">348<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of the video feeds, which most people want to keep pri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ate, as well as a<span class="_ _0"/>void the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">potential service interruptions that are possible with wireless.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">These systems operate in many wireless frequencies; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, some of the most </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">popular are 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, and 5.8 GHz. <span class="_ _2"/>Although some camera </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">systems operate in the 2.4-GHz frequency<span class="_ _3"/>, this does not mean that they are 802.11 or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">IP-based camera systems.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y122 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are many options for hidden cameras, as you are well a<span class="_ _0"/>ware; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, I </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y123 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e yet to see any or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations that really embrace hidden cameras. Instead, you’ll </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y124 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">typically see hidden cameras in small deployments such as retail locations. <span class="_ _0"/>There are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y125 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">also many ine<span class="_ _0"/>xpensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve dummy cameras. <span class="_ _0"/>These are just what they sound like—f<span class="_ _0"/>ake </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cameras that look exactly lik<span class="_ _0"/>e a real camera with no other purpose than deterring a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">would-be criminal. Honestly<span class="_ _2"/>, it can sometimes be very hard to spot a f<span class="_ _0"/>ake camera, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">although one dead gi<span class="_ _0"/>vea<span class="_ _0"/>way can be a cable that goes into the back plate of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">camera without any other sign of cabling an<span class="_ _0"/>ywhere, or sometimes there might not be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">any cable at all.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y21bf ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Dealing with Security Cameras</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker’<span class="_ _0"/>s least sophisticated method of dealing with security cameras will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">probably prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to be one of the most meaningful and often-used methods for dealing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with security cameras. This is the ignoring method—that is, we simply w<span class="_ _0"/>on’t be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">concerned with them.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21c4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As usual, this does not mean that we are obli<span class="_ _0"/>vious to the camera system, its </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">placement, or functionality<span class="_ _2"/>. On the contrary<span class="_ _2"/>, we want to know as much about the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization’<span class="_ _2"/>s security camera system as possible; howe<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, it won’t pre<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">us from physically inltrating the facility<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21c8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Start by thinking about what our intermediate goals are when physically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21c9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">inltrating the target f<span class="_ _0"/>acility<span class="_ _2"/>. W<span class="_ _3"/>e want to backdoor a computer system and/or take </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">digital information from a physically compromised computer system. Neither </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">of these hav<span class="_ _0"/>e much acti<span class="_ _0"/>vity<span class="_ _2"/>, if any<span class="_ _2"/>, that will be meaningful for physical security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">operations. Thus, the only time when security cameras will actually be a real concern </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to us is if we absolutely hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to lea<span class="_ _0"/>ve the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get facility with a physical asset.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This is one of the most important points that you need to fully comprehend and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">really appreciate. <span class="_ _0"/>When physically inltrating an organization, the most ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attacks and least risky for us will be attacks that ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve no implications of “breaking </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">in” or “stealing.<span class="_ _2"/>” Remember abov<span class="_ _0"/>e all else that if we don’t gi<span class="_ _0"/>ve the or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reason to look at their security cameras, then they probably ne<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er will. This is like </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the old prov<span class="_ _0"/>erb: If a tree falls in the woods and no one is around, does it really mak<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a sound? If an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker is in a building b<span class="_ _0"/>ut no one notices, was he e<span class="_ _0"/>ver really </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">there?</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>