<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf174" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="174"><div class="pc pc174 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">349</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Even in the w<span class="_ _0"/>orst case where we are observed or e<span class="_ _0"/>ven questioned by security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">personnel, we’ll craft our attacks in a way that we can a<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>oid any repercussions. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>ve co<span class="_ _0"/>vered specic tactics you can use to deal with security personnel in the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">section on social engineering in this chapter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">T<span class="_ _3"/>o fully appreciate the problems facing physical security personnel, you should </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">understand ho<span class="_ _0"/>w most physical security groups operate. T<span class="_ _3"/>ypically<span class="_ _2"/>, there is almost </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">zero true integration of information security groups and physical security groups. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There is no continuous communication or collaboration between these two groups. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">There may be organizations out there with better inte<span class="_ _0"/>gration between the information </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">security and physical security groups; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the<span class="_ _0"/>y are by far the exception and not </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the rule.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Add to this lack of integration the difculties that physical security groups ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve—</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not the least of which is ho<span class="_ _0"/>w most camera systems are monitored. T<span class="_ _3"/>ypically<span class="_ _2"/>, there </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">is a huge bank of monitors with a single physical security guard who has to monitor </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">all of the acti<span class="_ _0"/>vities occurring at once. <span class="_ _0"/>Aside from being mind-numbingly boring, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">it’<span class="_ _2"/>s just physically difcult to stare at these screens for long periods. In addition, in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">most locations with a large number of cameras, these video monitors will actually </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">scroll through the cameras currently being displayed, meaning there might be regular </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">interv<span class="_ _0"/>als in which a human being is not monitoring the feed from a camera. Even if </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">an organization could hire one security guard per camera, it w<span class="_ _0"/>ould still be extremely </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">difcult for a human being to stare at one boring tele<span class="_ _0"/>vision screen for eight hours </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1824 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">straight.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1825 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">I hav<span class="_ _0"/>e physically inltrated many or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations that ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve security cameras all </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1826 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ov<span class="_ _0"/>er the facility in “Big Brother” fashion. I ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e yet to be confronted by a security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1827 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">guard because I was spotted on a security camera.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1828 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _0"/>ith all of these difculties in mind, most security systems are used in a far </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y284 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">more reacti<span class="_ _0"/>ve way<span class="_ _3"/>. That is, the security footage will be re<span class="_ _0"/>viewed or handed o<span class="_ _0"/>ver to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y285 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">law enforcement in the e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ent that some large breach has been detected, such as a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y286 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">traditional “break in” at a facility after some v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable assets ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve gone missing.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y21d6 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Breaking Security Camera Feeds</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If we are concerned about security personnel observing our acti<span class="_ _0"/>vities on the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">li<span class="_ _0"/>ve camera feed, we might consider disrupting the li<span class="_ _0"/>ve footage. <span class="_ _0"/>There are a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely nontechnical ways for us to do this, and at its most fundamental le<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>el, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">these can be considered denial of service attacks. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e can consider both destructive </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and nondestructi<span class="_ _0"/>ve ways of disrupting the video feed. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll focus on nondestructi<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">methods here, as taking a rock to security cameras is not only an obvious option, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">an obvious sign of something malicious.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>