<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf175" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="175"><div class="pc pc175 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">350<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _0"/>ireless cameras may be easy to disrupt by creating too much wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">interference. There are le<span class="_ _0"/>gitimate (and illegitimate) tools with the sole purpose of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">jamming dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent wireless frequencies. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou’ll obviously need to kno<span class="_ _0"/>w the system in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">place, as well as the wireless frequencies, and get a de<span class="_ _0"/>vice specic to that frequency<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are e<span class="_ _0"/>ven some de<span class="_ _0"/>vices sold on the Internet labeled specically “wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">camera blockers.<span class="_ _3"/>” In a larger facility<span class="_ _2"/>, this might present a problem if there are many </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">wireless cameras that are physically spread out. In this case, we might need to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">coordinate se<span class="_ _0"/>veral wireless jammers at dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent locations.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">If, ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the cameras are connected using physical cables, we would need </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">access to the cables. If we simply wanted to pre<span class="_ _0"/>vent the li<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e feed, then we could </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y163 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">create too much electrical noise on the line; this would allo<span class="_ _0"/>w us to block the footage </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">without completely cutting the cable.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y21dd ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Mirroring Live Camera Feeds</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In some cases, it might also be benecial for us to observe the same footage as the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1d3f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security personnel. Looking at the two main options for CCTV systems, we’ll ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1af6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to either target analog video feeds or digital back-end systems. <span class="_ _0"/>The v<span class="_ _0"/>ast majority of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ya8f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">actual video or audio feeds are sent unencrypted in both analog and digital systems, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">making this a relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely easy task.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y20a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Depending on the cables being used, we might actually be able to clip a wireless </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">transmitter into the cable and copy the footage to our o<span class="_ _0"/>wn system. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21df ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">seen this in movies; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, we typically will need to pierce the casing of the cable.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21e0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If the system uses a coax cable, we can use a traditional tap or a coupler<span class="_ _2"/>. If we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e access to a point in the cable where there is an existing connector<span class="_ _2"/>, such as at the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">end of the cable either at the camera or at a central junction box, we can simply use a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">coaxial coupler like the one in Figure 9-22 to split the signal to whate<span class="_ _0"/>ver system we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">choose. It will probably be relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely uncommon to nd a good location where you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e access to the connector of an existing cable, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut it’<span class="_ _2"/>s still worth being aw<span class="_ _0"/>are of.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It’<span class="_ _2"/>s far more likely that we’ll ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve access to an uninterrupted part of the coax </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cable, in which case we could use a traditional v<span class="_ _0"/>ampire tap to pierce into the shield </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">and physically touch the inner metal conductor<span class="_ _2"/>. It’<span class="_ _0"/>s actually harder today to nd </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">v<span class="_ _0"/>ampire taps, so you’<span class="_ _0"/>re f<span class="_ _0"/>ar more likely to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to either create one yourself, or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">simply cut and crimp two ne<span class="_ _0"/>w ends on the coax cable and attach a coupler<span class="_ _2"/>. This </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will obviously kill the feed while you do this, so creating your o<span class="_ _0"/>wn v<span class="_ _0"/>ampire tap is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21ec ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">probably the best way to go. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e would then get a feed of<span class="_ _0"/>f of the tap into whatev<span class="_ _0"/>er </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">de<span class="_ _0"/>vice we choose, such as a wireless transmitter<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ethernet cabling presents some potential challenges, but if we’<span class="_ _2"/>re lucky<span class="_ _2"/>, it could be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven simpler to deal with Ethernet cabling than with coax. If we’<span class="_ _2"/>re extremely lucky </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>