<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf17c" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="17c"><div class="pc pc17c w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">357</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">positioning and detection area of the motion sensor and simply walk around, abo<span class="_ _0"/>ve, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or under this area. This is lik<span class="_ _0"/>e an intrusion detection system (IDS) that presents you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with a page of the protocols it is not monitoring.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The next lo<span class="_ _0"/>w-tech way of circumv<span class="_ _0"/>enting motion sensors is to simply mov<span class="_ _0"/>e <span class="ff5">very</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">slo<span class="_ _0"/>wly—no, I’m not kidding! Many motion sensors ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a threshold of required </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">mov<span class="_ _0"/>ement to av<span class="_ _0"/>oid a constant stream of false positi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>es. That’<span class="_ _2"/>s ironic, though, isn’t </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it? That’<span class="_ _2"/>s like a re<span class="_ _0"/>wall that doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t lter anything if we just throttle our pack<span class="_ _0"/>ets per </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">second. It is also possible to defeat acoustic motion sensors by holding up a regular </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bed sheet to cov<span class="_ _0"/>er your entire body<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y4b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">PIR motion sensors can ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>ely be disabled by blocking the heat emitted from </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">your body by cov<span class="_ _0"/>ering your entire body with a pane of glass. Because infrared light </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cannot pass through glass, this ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>ely makes you in<span class="_ _2"/>visible to the motion sensor<span class="_ _0"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It might be possible to create a small portable glass “box” that you could crouch </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">behind and walk to<span class="_ _0"/>ward the motion sensor<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although it might not be completely feasible to bring e<span class="_ _0"/>ven a relati<span class="_ _0"/>vely small pane </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of glass with you, there might still be ways to use this fact to our adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage. If we’<span class="_ _2"/>re </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">able to cov<span class="_ _0"/>er the PIR motion sensor with a piece of glass, this will hav<span class="_ _0"/>e the same </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">exact ef<span class="_ _0"/>fect.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If it sounds like I’m pulling your le<span class="_ _0"/>g that you can bypass motion sensors by </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">walking slo<span class="_ _0"/>wly<span class="_ _2"/>, using a bed sheet, or a pane of glass, believ<span class="_ _0"/>e me, I understand. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I still nd it a little incredible. There’<span class="_ _2"/>s an excellent <span class="ff5">Mythb<span class="_ _0"/>usters<span class="ff4"> tele<span class="_ _0"/>vision </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">episode demonstrating these exact methods of bypassing motion sensors. I highly </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">recommend you watch the episode. It’<span class="_ _2"/>s one thing to understand how something </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">works, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut to see it in action is a truly eye-opening and entertaining e<span class="_ _0"/>xperience.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2273 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hacking Contact Switches</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Contact switches or trigger plates reside on doors, windo<span class="_ _0"/>ws, and any other ingress/</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">egress points such as loading dock doors, garage doors, or sk<span class="_ _0"/>ylights to detect </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2276 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">when that point has been opened. These de<span class="_ _0"/>vices are e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely simple, and I mean </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2277 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extremely<span class="_ _3"/>. In Figure 9-27, you’ll see the basics of a closed-circuit system.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2278 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There is a small magnet (the top element in the gure) that rests right next to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">switch when the door is closed. This pulls do<span class="_ _0"/>wn on the le<span class="_ _0"/>ver within the switch and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">closes the circuit. If this circuit is broken—for e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, when the door opens—the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">magnet is remov<span class="_ _0"/>ed and the springed le<span class="_ _0"/>ver pops back and then the alarm will sound. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2279 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are open-circuit systems in which this concept is re<span class="_ _0"/>versed; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, this is far </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y227a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">less common.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y227b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The switch itself may be wireless; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, wireless systems are much more </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1633 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">common in home security systems. In most commercial alarm systems, you’ll </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y227c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">probably notice that the contact switch is hardwired.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>