<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf17e" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="17e"><div class="pc pc17e w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">359</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you are unable to ascertain the contact switch location ahead of time, then </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you should start with other locations. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>indo<span class="_ _0"/>ws and skylights present perfect </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">opportunities to identify where the contact switch is, as you can typically see it in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">plain sight.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a security system at your home or ofce, I recommend you practice </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">these techniques to appreciate just ho<span class="_ _0"/>w simple and effecti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e they truly are.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are also small plunger-type contact switches that w<span class="_ _0"/>ork on the same closed-</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y235 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">circuit principle; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, these are far less common. <span class="_ _0"/>These can also be much harder </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y236 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for us to identify<span class="_ _2"/>, as they can be mounted within the door jam itself anywhere, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y162 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">including the inside door frame closest to the door hinge. Just keep an e<span class="_ _0"/>ye out for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y163 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">any little b<span class="_ _0"/>uttons you see poking out of the door jam. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>ith some wireless systems, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y164 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">these could e<span class="_ _0"/>ven be mounted within the door itself! If the switch is mounted on the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">top of the door<span class="_ _0"/>, this could be e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely hard for us to spot.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Because these rely simply on the door physically pushing the button on the switch </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y167 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and closing the circuit, there won’<span class="_ _0"/>t be another magnetic piece—the contact unit is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y168 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">self-contained, and we won’<span class="_ _0"/>t observe a second piece on the door<span class="_ _2"/>. If the door and jam </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y239 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are both wood, we might be able to identify the location of the switch using a metal </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y23a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">detector or a simple stud detector<span class="_ _0"/>, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut I’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e ne<span class="_ _0"/>ver personally tested this method.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y23b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The potential ways to bypass plunger<span class="_ _0"/>-type contact systems should be obvious. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y16c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If we are able to identify the location of the switch and we can shim a thin piece of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y23c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">metal between the door and the plunger<span class="_ _0"/>, then the circuit will stay closed when we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y23d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">open the door<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y228e ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Critical Flaws in Security Systems</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1646 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Aside from the methods we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve already discussed, to bypass some of the core </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y228f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">components of security systems, there are se<span class="_ _0"/>veral inherent a<span class="_ _0"/>ws that are seemingly </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2290 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">inescapable, making these systems almost entirely meaningless. <span class="_ _2"/>As <span class="_ _0"/>APT hackers, we </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2291 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can almost always simply ignore the alarm system.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2292 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Remember that when it comes to physical security<span class="_ _2"/>, in the mind of the defenders, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2293 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the primary function of e<span class="_ _0"/>very security control is to act as a deterrent. <span class="_ _0"/>The thought </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2294 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is that if a criminal walks up to a b<span class="_ _0"/>uilding and sees a sign for an alarm system, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2295 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they will simply w<span class="_ _0"/>alk away and tar<span class="_ _0"/>get a location without an alarm system. Or if </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2296 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the criminal sets of<span class="_ _0"/>f the alarm and lights are ashing and sirens are roaring, then </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2297 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they will immediately run from the location to a<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>oid any security folks or la<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2298 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">enforcement. Frankly<span class="_ _2"/>, the defenders may hav<span class="_ _0"/>e correctly accounted for the av<span class="_ _0"/>erage </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2299 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">criminal; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the<span class="_ _0"/>y hav<span class="_ _0"/>e not properly accounted for the <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y21d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Again, we do not mean that we will walk into a facility obli<span class="_ _0"/>vious to a security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y21d4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">system. Instead, we will attempt to bypass the system; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, if we fail to bypass </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y229a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the system, we can av<span class="_ _0"/>oid being caught by security personnel or la<span class="_ _0"/>w enforcement. </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>