<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf183" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="183"><div class="pc pc183 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">364<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">through them as a legitimate user; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, there’<span class="_ _0"/>s typically a much easier way<span class="_ _3"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In e<span class="_ _0"/>very facility I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve e<span class="_ _0"/>ver seen a man trap, I’<span class="_ _2"/>ve alw<span class="_ _0"/>ays also seen at least one, and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">typically se<span class="_ _0"/>veral, alternati<span class="_ _0"/>ve entrances with virtually zero security<span class="_ _3"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The man trap is thus the security theater for the employees or customers of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">facility<span class="_ _2"/>, whereas side doors or loading docks will typically be av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable for us. So </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">our standard response to a man trap will probably be to nd another easier entrance.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y1b1 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hacking Home Security</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Employee homes can easily be the weakest physical security link. <span class="_ _0"/>These can be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">especially lucrati<span class="_ _0"/>ve if we kno<span class="_ _0"/>w the employee has digital assets that belong to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">company<span class="_ _3"/>, such as phones, laptops, tablets, etc. Inltrating a person’<span class="_ _0"/>s home takes </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y621 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the same due diligence in reconnaissance and the same care, but the risk we e<span class="_ _0"/>xpose </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ourselves to can be f<span class="_ _0"/>ar smaller than inltrating a facility o<span class="_ _0"/>wned by the target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls1f ws0">organization.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd ybfe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">At this point, you should hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a solid understanding of all of the major security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">controls you’<span class="_ _2"/>re likely to encounter at a person’<span class="_ _0"/>s home and ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to deal with them. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y87f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">These include door locks, alarm systems, safes, etc. I will say that the v<span class="_ _0"/>ast majority </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of homes hav<span class="_ _0"/>e very little to no security at all. From no<span class="_ _0"/>w on when you visit friends, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22e8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">family<span class="_ _2"/>, or colleagues at home, make a mental list of the security controls the<span class="_ _0"/>y hav<span class="_ _0"/>e. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Chances are it won’<span class="_ _0"/>t be much more than a standard pin tumbler door lock and maybe </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yc00 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a dead bolt.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd yc01 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">There is a lot of information and statistics regarding home in<span class="_ _2"/>vasions and robberies </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on the Internet, which is denitely worth looking into. <span class="_ _0"/>The av<span class="_ _0"/>erage robbery takes </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the criminal not much more than ve minutes. Criminals will get into the house </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">through extremely easy and unsophisticated means, such as hopping through a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22ec ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">windo<span class="_ _0"/>w or breaking a glass pane in a window and opening a deadbolt by reaching </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yc04 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">through. Once in, they might grab a pillo<span class="_ _0"/>wcase and start tearing the house apart, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">thro<span class="_ _0"/>wing anything into the bag that can pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide quick and easy money<span class="_ _2"/>. The whole </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">idea is speed. Since you will be well aw<span class="_ _0"/>are that you hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been robbed, they mak<span class="_ _0"/>e no </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attempts to keep their acti<span class="_ _0"/>vities clean or quiet. <span class="_ _2"/>A few minutes later<span class="_ _2"/>, they’<span class="_ _0"/>re on their </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">way out.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y22f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This may not be a pleasant reality<span class="_ _2"/>, but it is the reality nonetheless. F<span class="_ _0"/>or our </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">purposes, we want to remain stealthy<span class="_ _2"/>, and hopefully no one will e<span class="_ _0"/>ver e<span class="_ _0"/>ven kno<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we were there. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, if we were to set of<span class="_ _0"/>f an alarm, we can backdoor our tar<span class="_ _0"/>get </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">machine or plant our bug and step out as quickly as possible, kno<span class="_ _0"/>wing that most </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people would not assume a criminal has compromised their computer<span class="_ _2"/>, but rather that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the alarm simply scared of<span class="_ _0"/>f the would-be b<span class="_ _0"/>urglar<span class="_ _2"/>.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>