<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf184" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="184"><div class="pc pc184 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">365</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As always, the k<span class="_ _0"/>ey to inltrating a home is proper reconnaissance. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e already </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">discussed ho<span class="_ _0"/>w we can use the absurd amount of data that individuals or f<span class="_ _0"/>amily </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">members share on social media. The best things to look for will be v<span class="_ _0"/>acation dates, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">out-of-to<span class="_ _0"/>wn ev<span class="_ _0"/>ents, or maybe e<span class="_ _0"/>ven just postings about local e<span class="_ _0"/>vents or dinner dates. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ironically<span class="_ _2"/>, it is common for people to post weeks, if not months, in advance ho<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">excited the<span class="_ _0"/>y are to go on v<span class="_ _0"/>acation, which many times includes e<span class="_ _0"/>xactly where and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">when they are going.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Once we belie<span class="_ _0"/>ve there is no one at the property<span class="_ _2"/>, we hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w ways to v<span class="_ _0"/>erify this. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">First, we can simply call up the residence, spoong our caller ID to something that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">would elicit a response, such as a friend of the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get employee or an ofce number<span class="_ _0"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">maybe e<span class="_ _0"/>ven 911. If you call and no one picks up, you can probably be assured that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">no one is home.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e can always verify this with a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w knocks on the door as well. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y bur<span class="_ _0"/>glars </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will dress in an outt or uniform that will put anyone’<span class="_ _2"/>s mind at ease who sees them, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">such as a cable installer<span class="_ _0"/>, plumber<span class="_ _0"/>, po<span class="_ _0"/>wer compan<span class="_ _0"/>y worker<span class="_ _2"/>, etc. W<span class="_ _3"/>e can choose any of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">these that will t for our story<span class="_ _2"/>. Once again, a few knocks on the door is a good w<span class="_ _0"/>ay </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to identify if no one is home.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w common weak spots for homes beyond the traditional controls </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve already mentioned. The number<span class="_ _0"/>-one thing you can look out for are open </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">windo<span class="_ _0"/>ws or unlocked entry points. Garage doors can many times just be forced </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">up, and sliding glass doors are often easy to force open. Climbing through open </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1824 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">windo<span class="_ _0"/>ws or ev<span class="_ _0"/>en unlocked doors is sadly as hard as it gets for man<span class="_ _0"/>y criminals.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1825 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, if the home is locked up well, picking home door locks might be our </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1826 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">best bet, and is incredibly easy<span class="_ _2"/>. The pin tumbler locks that are present in 99 percent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1827 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of homes simply provide one of the easiest and most reliable methods for us. In f<span class="_ _0"/>act, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1828 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this can be a benet to us, as the home o<span class="_ _0"/>wner will hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a false sense of security that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">their home is all locked up.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y22f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Again with homes especially<span class="_ _2"/>, many people will put up a security alarm sign just </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y286 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as a deterrent without any intention of e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er getting an alarm system. It will typically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y287 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">take us about v<span class="_ _0"/>e seconds to determine if they ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a security system. If you check </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1829 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">just a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w windows or perhaps a glass door and are unable to spot an<span class="_ _0"/>y contact </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y182a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">switches, motion sensors, or cameras, you can probably bet the sign is just a sign.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y22f9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hacking Hotel Security</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Hotel rooms are surprisingly lacking in physical security<span class="_ _2"/>. Many people percei<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22fb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">them to be more secure than they are. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y people assume that hotels, including </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22fc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">oors with rooms, hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a lot of people frequently passing them, thus making them </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22fd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">unlikely tar<span class="_ _0"/>gets for a criminal. The presence of people, ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, is obviously of little </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22fe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">concern to us.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>