<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf185" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="185"><div class="pc pc185 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">366<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Generally speaking, hotels do not like to bother guests or make them feel put out </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">by requiring them to prov<span class="_ _0"/>e they are staying at the hotel. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, we can typically just </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">stroll in to the ele<span class="_ _0"/>vators and head to an<span class="_ _0"/>y oor we choose. Some hotels do require </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a ke<span class="_ _0"/>y to be used at the elev<span class="_ _0"/>ator to get to our intended oor; ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, there are still </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extremely easy w<span class="_ _0"/>ays around this. First, the same controls are typically not present </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on stairs, and since stairs are required for re codes, then we can simply get a little </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ex<span class="_ _0"/>ercise and head to our target oor<span class="_ _2"/>. Second, we can simply time our entry into </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y201c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the ele<span class="_ _0"/>vator so that someone else enters before us. Once the<span class="_ _0"/>y use their room ke<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and hit their destination oor<span class="_ _0"/>, we pull out our room ke<span class="_ _0"/>y to swipe it and laugh when </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2190 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we realize we are going to the same oor<span class="_ _2"/>. Finally<span class="_ _0"/>, if all it costs to compromise the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2191 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">target emplo<span class="_ _0"/>yee’<span class="_ _2"/>s hotel room is to rent our own hotel room for a night, then that will </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2192 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">probably be money well spent.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y276 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _0"/>ith all of the entry methods we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve discussed, it shouldn’t tak<span class="_ _0"/>e us more than 30 </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y277 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">seconds alone with the door to bypass any security<span class="_ _3"/>, and frankly<span class="_ _0"/>, it should be closer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y278 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to 10 seconds. There are simple things we can do to deal with the presence of other </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y279 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people as well.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many times, we can simply ignore the f<span class="_ _0"/>act that individuals might w<span class="_ _0"/>alk by<span class="_ _2"/>. When </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">timed correctly<span class="_ _2"/>, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s unlik<span class="_ _0"/>ely that someone will walk past us in the short 60 seconds </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that we need to open the door<span class="_ _2"/>. T<span class="_ _3"/>o prepare for the possibility that a guest might pass </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">us, we could put on a hat and worker’<span class="_ _2"/>s jacket to make it look lik<span class="_ _0"/>e we’<span class="_ _2"/>re simply xing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">something with the door<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y27f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If we’<span class="_ _2"/>re lucky enough to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a partner with us who can keep watch for an<span class="_ _0"/>yone </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y280 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">coming, then they can simply distract the person with a question and allo<span class="_ _0"/>w you to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y281 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">walk a<span class="_ _0"/>way<span class="_ _2"/>. If an elev<span class="_ _0"/>ator is close by<span class="_ _3"/>, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s just a matter of either watching the current </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y282 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">oors to see when the ele<span class="_ _0"/>vator is on the mo<span class="_ _0"/>ve or simply opening the ele<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ator door </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y283 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and pre<span class="_ _0"/>venting the doors from closing while you open the door to the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get’<span class="_ _2"/>s room.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2180 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ascertaining when maids make their rounds is as easy as calling the front desk </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2181 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">and asking when they’<span class="_ _0"/>ll be cleaning your room or oor<span class="_ _0"/>. But again, as long as there </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd63 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is currently no one on the oor<span class="_ _0"/>, we need such a short amount of time that it doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yd64 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">matter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y22ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The under-door tools that we co<span class="_ _0"/>vered earlier w<span class="_ _0"/>ork especially well for hotel rooms, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2300 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as most handles are not regular rounded doorknobs b<span class="_ _0"/>ut instead a lateral handle. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2301 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There hav<span class="_ _0"/>e also been some interesting technical vulnerabilities identied in popular </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2302 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hotel room access systems.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y1f8d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In 2012, Cody Brocious demonstrated a very interesting de<span class="_ _0"/>vice that could open </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">most Onity brand hotel locks using an <span class="_ _2"/>Arduino controller that cost less than $50. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1f8f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">On the base of these locks is a small socket to which he connected the <span class="_ _2"/>Arduino </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2303 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">controller<span class="_ _2"/>. Essentially<span class="_ _0"/>, the controller reads a special v<span class="_ _0"/>alue from the door lock </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2304 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and sends it back to the controller and the lock opens—this happens in roughly </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>