<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf186" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="186"><div class="pc pc186 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">367</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">200 milliseconds. This specic vulnerability is unique to certain Onity locks, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut one </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">has to wonder if there are similar vulnerabilities in other popular electronic locks.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2ec ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Social Engineering and Fake IDs</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">At a surprising number of hotels, getting a ke<span class="_ _0"/>y to the room is as simple as asking. I </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">test this on a regular basis whene<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er I go to a hotel, just for my own curiosity<span class="_ _3"/>. I’ll go </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">up to the front desk and tell them I locked myself out of my room and that I need my </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ke<span class="_ _0"/>y reset. Roughly 80 percent of the time all they ask is for your name. In the rare </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cases that they ask for ID, I simply tell them it’<span class="_ _2"/>s in my room, thus I can’t sho<span class="_ _0"/>w it to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y215 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">them. In extremely rare cases, probably 5 percent of the time, the<span class="_ _0"/>y will escort you to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2305 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the room to vie<span class="_ _0"/>w your ID after giving you access to the room.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you test this yourself, I highly recommend you really push the en<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>elope to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">see ho<span class="_ _0"/>w much you can get away with. <span class="_ _0"/>The tactic that has work<span class="_ _0"/>ed well for me is to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">simply be friendly and talkati<span class="_ _0"/>ve with the person who escorts me to my room. Once </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you get to your room, you simply thank them for helping you and ignore the fact </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that they were coming with you to v<span class="_ _0"/>erify your ID. Most people will just be a little </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">confused at rst, but the<span class="_ _0"/>y’ll think to themselv<span class="_ _0"/>es, “Criminals are not that friendly; </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y9a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">he’<span class="_ _2"/>s obviously who he claims to be,<span class="_ _2"/>” and they’ll go on their w<span class="_ _0"/>ay<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In the absolute rarest of cases, the person might ask one nal time for your ID. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2fb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Gi<span class="_ _0"/>ven that you kno<span class="_ _0"/>w your target ahead of time and you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve prepared, then there are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2306 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">many w<span class="_ _0"/>ays we can settle this argument for an ID. Most people will assume that a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2307 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">dri<span class="_ _0"/>ver’<span class="_ _2"/>s license is what is being requested; howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, if you present a b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness card </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or credit card with the proper name, you’ll probably be ne. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y professionals, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">especially in real estate, will hav<span class="_ _0"/>e b<span class="_ _0"/>usiness cards with their photo on it; this will put </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">most people at ease.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2308 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Of course, there are many easy w<span class="_ _0"/>ays to create fake dri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er’<span class="_ _0"/>s licenses. One good </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">trick is to create an ID for an uncommon state. Since you’<span class="_ _2"/>re staying at a hotel, it’<span class="_ _0"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">understandable if your ID is from another state, and the person will look at nothing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">more than your name and won’<span class="_ _0"/>t know that an<span class="_ _0"/>ything is wrong with your ID.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remember this all goes back to congruence and assumed legitimac<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>. If you can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2309 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">produce a business card with your photo and a credit card with the same name, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y230a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">just assumed that you are who you say you are.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y308 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This method does come with its o<span class="_ _0"/>wn risks. <span class="_ _0"/>When we get a new room k<span class="_ _0"/>ey<span class="_ _2"/>, the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y230b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">existing room k<span class="_ _0"/>eys will no longer function. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, when the person staying in the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y230c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hotel room returns and their ke<span class="_ _0"/>y no longer works, they will head to the front desk </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y230d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and hav<span class="_ _0"/>e it reset. <span class="_ _2"/>Anyone who’<span class="_ _2"/>s stayed at a hotel before will tell you that faulty room </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y230e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ke<span class="_ _0"/>ys are a relativ<span class="_ _0"/>ely common problem and this alone will not raise any suspicion. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y230f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, if the same hotel employee has to change the k<span class="_ _0"/>ey<span class="_ _3"/>, then we might have a </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>