<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf187" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="187"><div class="pc pc187 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">368<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">serious problem. For these reasons, we should k<span class="_ _0"/>eep this method in our back pocket, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">but gi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e preference to surreptitiously entering the room.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y48c ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hacking Car Security</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The v<span class="_ _0"/>ast majority of cars hav<span class="_ _0"/>e laughable security in place. On top of this, many </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">people feel completely ne leaving v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable assets in their cars. <span class="_ _2"/>Again, think about </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">things you might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e left in your car or what friends, family<span class="_ _3"/>, or colleagues might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">leav<span class="_ _0"/>e in their cars. It is common to nd badges, IDs, spare car ke<span class="_ _0"/>ys, house ke<span class="_ _0"/>ys, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y490 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">laptops, and phones. There ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve been man<span class="_ _0"/>y reported incidents in which employees </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y491 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e had laptops or e<span class="_ _0"/>ven hard dri<span class="_ _0"/>ves or unencrypted backup tapes stolen from </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y492 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">their cars!</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y493 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Inexpensi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e toolsets are av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable specically designed for car entry<span class="_ _2"/>. The go-to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y494 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tool is the standard jimmy tool or other simple shimming tools. For most car door </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y495 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws35">locks, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s as simple as slipping the jimmy tool between the window and door<span class="_ _0"/>, nding </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y496 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the rod to the locking mechanism, and either pulling up or pushing do<span class="_ _0"/>wn on the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y497 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">rod—depending on the make and model of the car—which opens the door<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y601 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many cars you can also open with the simplest methods akin to the under<span class="_ _0"/>-door </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y602 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tools. By simply wedging open the windo<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>, you can reach in with a small metal </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y49a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wire—clothing hangers work perfectly—and pull up on the door handle, push do<span class="_ _0"/>wn </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y49b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or pull up on the door lock button, or manipulate the door lock itself.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y49c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For a truly lo<span class="_ _0"/>w-tech method, you can also ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve a duplicate k<span class="_ _0"/>ey created for the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yc01 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">car<span class="_ _2"/>. Many times, this is as simple as giving an automobile dealership the v<span class="_ _0"/>ehicle </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yc02 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">identication number (VIN), model, and year of the car<span class="_ _0"/>, and the<span class="_ _0"/>y can create you a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd yc03 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">duplicate ke<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>. Obviously<span class="_ _2"/>, they’ll require some proof that you o<span class="_ _0"/>wn the car<span class="_ _2"/>, but at this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y606 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">point, you should hav<span class="_ _0"/>e at least half a dozen methods in mind to circumvent </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y607 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this issue.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y608 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">There are also huge collections of all possible ke<span class="_ _0"/>ys from specic manufacturers </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable to purchase on the Internet. Ev<span class="_ _0"/>en if it took you a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w visits to identify the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls12 ws0">correct ke<span class="_ _0"/>y<span class="_ _2"/>, you then have an immediate method to open the car whene<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er you need to.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y22ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>ve already discussed vulnerabilities in PIN entry doors. Some cars come with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2310 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">similar PIN entry doors with rubber ke<span class="_ _0"/>ys that typically hav<span class="_ _0"/>e two numbers on either </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">side of the button—for e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 and 6, 7 and 8, and 9 and 0. By </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">performing a simple brute-force of just ov<span class="_ _0"/>er 3,000 numbers long, you’<span class="_ _0"/>re guaranteed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">success on many models of cars. <span class="_ _2"/>Although you hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to manually hit e<span class="_ _0"/>very number<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">if you hit two b<span class="_ _0"/>uttons e<span class="_ _0"/>very second, you should be able to hit e<span class="_ _0"/>very necessary </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y22f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">combination in under 20 minutes.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>