<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf18c" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="18c"><div class="pc pc18c w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xb h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 9: Physical Infiltration<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">373</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on the remote system, you can then SSH to port 222 on the remote system to access </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">your drop box.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y48c ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Steal Asset</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are some scenarios where it makes more sense to take an asset of<span class="_ _0"/>f site and not </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">return it. Remember the number-one problem with this is that man<span class="_ _0"/>y times it will be a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">clear sign of our intrusion, so this will be the least common option for us.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd ybfa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If we’<span class="_ _2"/>re lucky<span class="_ _2"/>, though, there are some cases where we might be able to take an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">asset without it really being noticed. In many or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations, there might be stacks </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of old laptops, computers, old backup tapes, or e<span class="_ _0"/>ven serv<span class="_ _0"/>ers that are not labeled or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y5ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tracked. <span class="_ _0"/>These types of devices can present perfect tar<span class="_ _0"/>gets to steal, as the<span class="_ _0"/>y often </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y493 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">contain an absurd amount of unencrypted data.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y494 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Obviously<span class="_ _3"/>, if our ultimate target is a physical asset, then this can’t be a<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>oided, but </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we’<span class="_ _2"/>re talking about intermediate assets to help us get to our intended asset. The main </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">reason we’<span class="_ _0"/>d w<span class="_ _0"/>ant to steal an asset is when we don’t ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve time to gather all of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y600 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">av<span class="_ _0"/>ailable intelligence from the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice while on site or we couldn’<span class="_ _0"/>t obtain access to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y601 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice remotely<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2340 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Recovering Data</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2341 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If you take a remote computer asset, not only can you look for traditional data such </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2342 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as dumping passwords from the password or Security <span class="_ _2"/>Accounts Manager (SAM) </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2343 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">le, cached credentials, or sensiti<span class="_ _0"/>ve documents, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut you can also attempt to recov<span class="_ _0"/>er </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2344 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">deleted data.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2345 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Recov<span class="_ _0"/>ering deleted data from a Ne<span class="_ _0"/>w T<span class="_ _3"/>echnology File System (NTFS) partition </div><div class="t m0 x3 h3f y2346 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can be performed using a command-line tool such as the Linux <span class="fff">ntfsundelete</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2347 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">command. There are also graphical tools a<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ailable, such as GetDataBack from </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2348 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Runtime Software. Be sure to search all of the deleted data for the same things you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2349 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws20">would look for on a li<span class="_ _0"/>ve system. <span class="_ _1b"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou might be surprised at the valuable data you nd.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y234a ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>ake and Return Asset</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y234b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In some cases, we might e<span class="_ _0"/>ven be able to take the asset, backdoor it or remo<span class="_ _0"/>ve the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y234c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable data, and then return the asset. In these cases, the tactics for retrieving the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y234d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">data or backdooring the asset are exactly the same. It’<span class="_ _2"/>s just a matter of determining </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y234e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">whether we need the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization to not notice that the asset was temporarily </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y234f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">missing, or if we need them to use the asset for the attack to be complete.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2350 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if we were to obtain a laptop, bring it back to headquarters, and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2351 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">retrie<span class="_ _0"/>ve all of the data and cached credentials of<span class="_ _0"/>f of the asset, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut didn’t nd an<span class="_ _0"/>y </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>