<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf18d" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="18d"><div class="pc pc18d w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xbe h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">374<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">v<span class="_ _0"/>alid and current credentials, we might want to backdoor the machine and return it to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">be used. <span class="_ _2"/>At that point, the asset could be reporting home over a long time, sending us </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">much more useful information.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2352 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Backdoor Asset</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Backdooring assets will prov<span class="_ _0"/>e to be one of the most meaningful attacks we can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y48f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">perform after physically inltrating an organization. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously covered some </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of the possibilities; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, there are some unique options that we might not ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y490 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">had before.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd ybfb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Remember that most of what has already been cov<span class="_ _0"/>ered can be performed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1eb3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">manually while inside the facility<span class="_ _2"/>. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if we were able to obtain a smart </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y621 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">phone that an employee had left behind, we might be able to take this opportunity </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to install one of the phone monitoring systems discussed in Phase IV<span class="_ _1b"/>. Even if you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">needed more time with an asset such as a phone, you can choose to take the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd ybfe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of<span class="_ _0"/>f site, backdoor it and return it. Or you might be able to craft a reasonable story<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y600 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">such as telling the person you found their phone and are trying to return it to the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y601 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">rightful o<span class="_ _0"/>wner<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2340 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Efﬁciently Backdooring Computers</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2341 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">W<span class="_ _0"/>ith most computers that we gain access to, we’ll ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve the capabilities to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2342 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">immediately backdoor the system. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’<span class="_ _0"/>ve already discussed some of the hardware </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2343 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">systems we can use to compromise computers; we can simply tweak these systems </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2344 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for manual deployment and bring them to the facility<span class="_ _3"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2345 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If we’<span class="_ _2"/>re able to obtain access to any computers that are unlocked, we can deploy </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2346 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the backdoor or payload and then remov<span class="_ _0"/>e the de<span class="_ _0"/>vice. If we identify any computers </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2353 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that would be v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable to backdoor b<span class="_ _0"/>ut are not logged in, we can use a slightly </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2354 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">modied T<span class="_ _3"/>eensy device that we can lea<span class="_ _0"/>ve behind and then w<span class="_ _0"/>ait for the user to log in.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2355 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, we can use the T<span class="_ _3"/>eensy payloads we created earlier to save ourselv<span class="_ _0"/>es </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2356 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">time in typing. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e can use a Mini-B to Standard-B USB adapter to create a T<span class="_ _2"/>eensy </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2357 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">de<span class="_ _0"/>vice that can plug directly into a computer without being embedded in another </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2358 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">de<span class="_ _0"/>vice. If we prepare a few of these <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _2"/>eensy de<span class="_ _0"/>vices in advance, we could insert one </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2359 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">into an unlocked workstation and then mo<span class="_ _0"/>ve on to nd additional w<span class="_ _0"/>orkstations to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y235a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">plant another T<span class="_ _3"/>eensy device.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y235b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>e could also choose to deploy our software backdoor using a standard USB </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y235c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">dri<span class="_ _0"/>ve. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e could still congure autorun to automatically execute and install our </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y235d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">backdoor<span class="_ _0"/>, and fall back on manually running the installer if autorun is disabled on </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the computer<span class="_ _2"/>.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>