<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf29" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="29"><div class="pc pc29 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x56 h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">18<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x57 h7 y328 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ambiguous Causality</div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y329 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many people in the IT eld are quick to point out that the<span class="_ _0"/>y hav<span class="_ _0"/>e trouble adjusting </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y32a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">end-user behaviors so that the<span class="_ _0"/>y make better security decisions. One of the reasons </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y32b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people hav<span class="_ _0"/>e trouble appreciating the importance of their digital security decisions is </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y32c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">due to ambiguous causality—cause and ef<span class="_ _0"/>fect.</div><div class="t m0 x58 hd y35d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if someone forgets to lock the door to their car and someone </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y35e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">steals their radio, they can immediately see and feel the ne<span class="_ _0"/>gati<span class="_ _0"/>ve ef<span class="_ _0"/>fects of their </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y35f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">bad decision. The<span class="_ _0"/>y’ll ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve an immediate ne<span class="_ _0"/>gati<span class="_ _0"/>ve emotional reaction, and the<span class="_ _0"/>y’ll </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y360 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">probably ne<span class="_ _0"/>ver make the mistak<span class="_ _0"/>e of leaving their car unlock<span class="_ _0"/>ed again (at least not </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y361 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for a while). Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, if someone fails to patch their computer and their credit </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y362 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">card details are stolen, there’<span class="_ _2"/>s no immediate emotional connection to the failure </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y363 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in security<span class="fs5">.</span> Most e<span class="_ _0"/>veryone understands the relationship between the cause of not </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y364 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">using the car’<span class="_ _2"/>s security (a locked door) and the effect of an attack (ha<span class="_ _0"/>ving a radio </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y365 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">stolen), but fe<span class="_ _0"/>w people understand the relationship between computer security and </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y366 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">credit card theft. In fact, man<span class="_ _0"/>y might nev<span class="_ _0"/>er fully understand why or ho<span class="_ _0"/>w they were </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y337 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">compromised in this simple online attack.</div><div class="t m0 x58 hd y338 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Also, consider the time between when the actual compromise took place and </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y339 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">when the victim is made aw<span class="_ _0"/>are of the fact. The initial compromise might come from </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y33a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a user clicking a malicious link in an e-mail, and then weeks or e<span class="_ _0"/>ven months later<span class="_ _0"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y367 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the criminal creates a credit card with the victim’<span class="_ _2"/>s details and goes on a shopping </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y368 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">spree. So ho<span class="_ _0"/>w can a user be expected to understand the actual impact of malicious </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y369 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e-mails when the ef<span class="_ _0"/>fects are so far remov<span class="_ _0"/>ed from the cause? This mak<span class="_ _0"/>es it virtually </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y36a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">impossible for the av<span class="_ _0"/>erage person to appreciate the ef<span class="_ _0"/>fects of their bad techno-</div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y36b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security decisions</div><div class="t m0 x59 ha y36c ff4 fs5 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">.</div><div class="t m0 x57 h7 y36d ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Offensive Thinking vs. Defensive Thinking</div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y36e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Generally<span class="_ _2"/>, there is a big difference in the of<span class="_ _0"/>fensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve and defensi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e thinking processes, </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y36f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">which leav<span class="_ _0"/>es the attacker with a clear adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage. Defensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve think<span class="_ _0"/>ers appear to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y370 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a narro<span class="_ _0"/>w and traditional process for handling security<span class="_ _2"/>, whereas attackers take a </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y371 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">much more liberal and “outside of the box” approach to problems. This, of course, </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y372 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is a some<span class="_ _0"/>what ethereal statement, and in no way do I mean to imply that defensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y373 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">personnel are less intelligent than of<span class="_ _0"/>fensiv<span class="_ _0"/>e attackers. Instead, this is just another </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y374 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">example of a general industry f<span class="_ _0"/>ailure in the psychology of security<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x58 hd y375 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This can be summed up as the “patch mentality” vs. the “outside of the box” </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y376 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">mentality<span class="_ _2"/>. There ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve been man<span class="_ _0"/>y examples of defenders creating ways to mitigate </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y377 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">specic attacks or attack vectors, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut completely failing to look at those defenses </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y378 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">from the perspecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve of actual attackers. <span class="_ _0"/>There are many great, inno<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ati<span class="_ _0"/>ve ideas to </div><div class="t m0 x57 hd y379 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">mitigate specic attacks and attack classes, but in man<span class="_ _0"/>y cases, they are completely </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>