<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf2a" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="2a"><div class="pc pc2a w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x34 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 1: Introduction<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">19</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reactionary<span class="_ _2"/>. The attacker will al<span class="_ _0"/>ways ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve the upper hand because the<span class="_ _0"/>y can innov<span class="_ _0"/>ate </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in a fundamentally dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent and faster way<span class="_ _3"/>. Ultimately<span class="_ _0"/>, the problem boils do<span class="_ _0"/>wn to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">defensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve thinkers not taking the time to think lik<span class="_ _0"/>e an of<span class="_ _0"/>fensiv<span class="_ _0"/>e attacker<span class="_ _2"/>. T<span class="_ _3"/>o build the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">best defenses, one should constantly look at their systems from both vie<span class="_ _0"/>wpoints, and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">today<span class="_ _2"/>, many or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations fail to correctly obtain the vie<span class="_ _0"/>wpoint of the attacker<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y37a ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The Big Picture</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I’m not telling you anything ne<span class="_ _0"/>w when I say ho<span class="_ _0"/>w important cell phones, computers, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the Internet, or e<span class="_ _0"/>ven F<span class="_ _0"/>acebook are to the majority of the world. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ver stopped to think of the actual impact of these technologies, both on a personal </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y1b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and global scale? The f<span class="_ _0"/>act is that the security implications and impact of technology </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on our world stretches far be<span class="_ _0"/>yond the actual domain of technology<span class="_ _2"/>, and we simply </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can’t comprehend e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ery single way that these technologies ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve and will continue </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y37f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">to af<span class="_ _0"/>fect our liv<span class="_ _0"/>es. These technologies af<span class="_ _0"/>fect our health, wealth, social status,<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y380 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls14 ws16">well-being, and without a doubt, our security<span class="_ _2"/>. People used to hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to physically </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y381 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bring information from one end of the world to the other; look ho<span class="_ _0"/>w far we’<span class="_ _2"/>ve come.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y382 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many people belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e this burst in technology is simply another necessary or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y383 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">unav<span class="_ _0"/>oidable step in our e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olution—a product of commercialism, capitalism, and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y384 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">market-dri<span class="_ _0"/>ven demand. Consumers demand access to ine<span class="_ _0"/>xpensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve technologies that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y385 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">keep them “connected” or make them more producti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e and are rav<span class="_ _0"/>enous to buy </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y386 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">the latest ne<span class="_ _0"/>w gadget. T<span class="_ _3"/>echnology giants create new and innov<span class="_ _0"/>ati<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e hardware and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y387 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">software to meet this demand and are constantly adding ne<span class="_ _0"/>w features to dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferentiate </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y388 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">their products from their competitors. In the rush to get ne<span class="_ _0"/>w products nished and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y389 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">in the hands of consumers as quickly and inexpensi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ely as possible, security is often </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">completely neglected.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y38b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A serious problem lies in what many people f<span class="_ _0"/>ail to realize. This is <span class="ff5">not</span> just another </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">step in human adv<span class="_ _0"/>ancement. T<span class="_ _3"/>echnology has huge and far-reaching implications for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">our security<span class="_ _2"/>, both on a personal and a global lev<span class="_ _0"/>el. <span class="_ _2"/>And we have gone w<span class="_ _0"/>ay too far to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">simply start ov<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _2"/>. It’<span class="_ _0"/>s absolutely impossible to compete in this world without using </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y38f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">technology<span class="_ _2"/>. When w<span class="_ _0"/>as the last time you saw a job that needed to specically state </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y390 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“computer skills a plus”? It’<span class="_ _2"/>s just assumed now<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y391 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This complete entanglement between humans and technology has such profound </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y392 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">implications on e<span class="_ _0"/>veryone’<span class="_ _2"/>s liv<span class="_ _0"/>es, we could easily ll libraries discussing it all. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y393 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Consider ho<span class="_ _0"/>w often you use technology without ev<span class="_ _0"/>en realizing it. The po<span class="_ _0"/>wer grid, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y394 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">emergenc<span class="_ _0"/>y response systems, payment and banking systems—virtually e<span class="_ _0"/>very part of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y395 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">our li<span class="_ _0"/>ves relies on a comple<span class="_ _0"/>x network of computer systems.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y396 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">T<span class="_ _3"/>ake a moment to actually ponder the previous statement; ho<span class="_ _0"/>w man<span class="_ _0"/>y times a day </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y397 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">do you use a computer or a smart phone or some other networked de<span class="_ _0"/>vice without </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>