<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf2b" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="2b"><div class="pc pc2b w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x5a h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">20<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven realizing it? <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e are all touched by technology now<span class="_ _2"/>, whether we like it or not. </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>our grandparents may nev<span class="_ _0"/>er ev<span class="_ _0"/>en use a computer<span class="_ _0"/>, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut their bank went digital a long </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">time ago, making your grandparents also susceptible to technological vulnerabilities.</div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This proliferation of technology<span class="_ _2"/>, among other things, has led to the current </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nightmare of insecurity throughout our world and lays the foundation for the coming </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">re<span class="_ _0"/>volutions. <span class="_ _2"/>All of this pervasi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e technology is ripe for abuse. Ev<span class="_ _0"/>en designed and </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">deployed in the most secure ways, there remains room to ab<span class="_ _0"/>use technology<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many people also belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e that things will simply self-correct. The<span class="_ _0"/>y believ<span class="_ _0"/>e that </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y124 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">one of the contributing f<span class="_ _0"/>actors that hav<span class="_ _0"/>e put us in this terrible spot will get us out of </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y125 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it—that is, that the market will meet the demands of consumers who need security<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">They belie<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e that ev<span class="_ _0"/>entually<span class="_ _2"/>, the security of technology will get to a point where all </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the security weaknesses inherent today are gone, or at least mostly remediated.</div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Unfortunately<span class="_ _2"/>, this is simply not going to happen. <span class="_ _0"/>As you will learn throughout </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y39c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this book, the issues go far be<span class="_ _0"/>yond just vulnerabilities in technology products. It </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y39d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">comes do<span class="_ _0"/>wn to our species not being prepared for and unable to adapt quickly </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y39e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">enough to handle the complex security implications of technology<span class="_ _3"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>As a species, not </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y39f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">only are we inherently bad at calculating real risk, but the w<span class="_ _0"/>ay we use technology<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the assumptions we make, and the trust we assign to our digital assets is v<span class="_ _0"/>ery much </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ske<span class="_ _0"/>wed in the wrong direction.</div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y3a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">No<span class="_ _0"/>w am I saying that the world will crumble around us and we will return to </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">small societies based on tribal warfare? Ob<span class="_ _0"/>viously not—well, hopefully not. <span class="_ _0"/>What I </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">am saying is that for a very long time no<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>, this world will remain a playground for </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">people who understand technology and are willing to bend and manipulate the rules </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to meet their goals.</div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y3a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Although I do belie<span class="_ _0"/>ve that the world will start to self-correct (and has already </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">begun to), the root of the problem lies f<span class="_ _0"/>ar out of our control, which means that </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">although specic vulnerabilities may shift and change ov<span class="_ _0"/>er time, one fact will </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3aa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">remain true for a very long time, perhaps for the rest of our ci<span class="_ _0"/>vilization: <span class="ff5">The fact that </span></div><div class="t m0 x24 h24 y3ab ff5 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nothing is out of r<span class="_ _0"/>each for the <span class="_ _0"/>APT hac<span class="_ _0"/>ker<span class="_ _1b"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x24 h7 y3ac ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Guerilla W<span class="_ _0"/>arfare</div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3ad ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Information security is very much lik<span class="_ _0"/>e guerrilla warfare. Or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations are large, </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3ae ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">stationary targets that v<span class="_ _0"/>ery small bands of in<span class="_ _0"/>visible threats can attack at will. <span class="_ _2"/>APT </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3af ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">hackers represent “irre<span class="_ _0"/>gular” soldiers that inltrate large or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations and withdraw </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3b0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as soon as they ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve what the<span class="_ _0"/>y need, although they may remain surreptitiously </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">resident in an organization for a long time<span class="fs5 ls0">.<span class="fs7 ws0"> <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _3"/>o say that an <span class="_ _0"/>APT hacker uses mobility </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y3b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to their adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage is an extreme understatement.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>