<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf2c" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="2c"><div class="pc pc2c w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x34 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 1: Introduction<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">21</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">APT hackers utilize elements of man<span class="_ _0"/>y other warfare strate<span class="_ _0"/>gies; ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">major tactics and strategies of guerilla w<span class="_ _0"/>arfare apply nicely to the <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>, as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’ll see later in this book.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, there are man<span class="_ _0"/>y factors in which this is very dif<span class="_ _0"/>ferent from traditional </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y232 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">warfare. F<span class="_ _0"/>or example, unlik<span class="_ _0"/>e traditional warfare, man<span class="_ _0"/>y attackers don’<span class="_ _0"/>t need to worry </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">about retaliation. In warfare, the<span class="_ _0"/>y bomb us; we bomb them. But cyber<span class="_ _0"/>-criminals </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y15f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and <span class="_ _2"/>APT hackers don’t ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve that w<span class="_ _0"/>orry<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>Additionally<span class="_ _2"/>, with traditional crimes, the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">criminal has to worry about getting caught and either killed or sent to prison. <span class="_ _2"/>An </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">APT hacker uses e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely stealthy methods to make it virtually impossible to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ver assign a specic indi<span class="_ _0"/>vidual to any c<span class="_ _0"/>yber-attack. <span class="_ _0"/>Thus, this c<span class="_ _0"/>yber-w<span class="_ _0"/>ar will be a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">constant struggle to defend against a virtually anonymous attack<span class="_ _0"/>er with the upper </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws16">hand.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y165 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Another interesting fact is that or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations are limited by sev<span class="_ _0"/>eral factors when </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y166 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">choosing which defenses to utilize to secure their business. So man<span class="_ _0"/>y organizations </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">struggle to implement e<span class="_ _0"/>ven rudimentary industry-standard best practice </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">congurations and technologies that they simply can’<span class="_ _0"/>t deploy technologies that </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attackers are una<span class="_ _0"/>ware of. This is v<span class="_ _0"/>ery important and bears repeating. Defenders are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">only using technologies that attackers are a<span class="_ _0"/>ware of and can specically research and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">analyze for vulnerabilities. This means that attack<span class="_ _0"/>ers can innov<span class="_ _0"/>ate and use exploits </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that defenders are unaw<span class="_ _0"/>are of. Defenders can then be slow to disco<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, analyze, and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y27e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">come up with correcti<span class="_ _0"/>ve measure</div><div class="t m0 x5b hd y3b5 ff4 fs5 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">s<span class="fs7"> for these exploits.</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3b6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws1e">This doesn’t mean that or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations cannot innov<span class="_ _0"/>ate, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut that attackers are able to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">innov<span class="_ _0"/>ate more quickly and to a greater e<span class="_ _0"/>xtent. <span class="_ _0"/>As an e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, if an organization uses </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a specic anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus software, an attacker can acquire their o<span class="_ _0"/>wn copy of the softw<span class="_ _0"/>are </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3b9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and de<span class="_ _0"/>velop ne<span class="_ _0"/>w programs or techniques to circumvent it. If the attack<span class="_ _0"/>er uses this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ba ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">technique at only a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations, it’<span class="_ _2"/>s highly unlikely that an appropriate </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3bb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">defense will be de<span class="_ _0"/>veloped in an<span class="_ _0"/>y meaningful amount of time. <span class="_ _0"/>A defense or x may </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3bc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ultimately be de<span class="_ _0"/>veloped, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut by then the damage has already been done and the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3bd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attacker can mo<span class="_ _0"/>ve on to de<span class="_ _0"/>veloping ne<span class="_ _0"/>w attack techniques.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y3be ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The V<span class="_ _0"/>ulnerability of Complexity</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3bf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The vulnerability of complexity<span class="_ _3"/>, not to be confused with the complexity of a specic </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">vulnerability<span class="_ _2"/>, is the fact that in extremely comple<span class="_ _0"/>x systems you are guaranteed to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hav<span class="_ _0"/>e inherent security vulnerabilities. Software itself is one of the most ob<span class="_ _0"/>vious and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">often used examples. Some studies sho<span class="_ _0"/>w that for approximately e<span class="_ _0"/>very thousand lines </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of code, at least one vulnerability is introduced<span class="fs5">.</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3c4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Microsoft <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>indo<span class="_ _0"/>ws 7, without any e<span class="_ _0"/>xtra software installed, has about 50 million </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">lines of code<span class="fs5">!</span> That means there are roughly 50,000 vulnerabilities in <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>indows </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>