<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf2d" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="2d"><div class="pc pc2d w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x5c h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">22<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">7 alone. Even if only 1 percent of those are security vulnerabilities that can be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">exploited to gain a positi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e outcome for an attacker<span class="_ _0"/>, that would mean there are 500 </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y20f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">vulnerabilities in <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>indo<span class="_ _0"/>ws 7. The statistics seem to indicate that there are f<span class="_ _0"/>ar more </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y210 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">than 500 exploitable vulnerabilities in major operating systems just w<span class="_ _0"/>aiting to be </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y211 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">discov<span class="_ _0"/>ered.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y212 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">No<span class="_ _0"/>w think of all of the systems in place besides just operating systems that add </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to this complexity: banking systems, po<span class="_ _0"/>wer and utility control systems, network </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">systems—all of these are built in similar w<span class="_ _0"/>ays with similar vulnerabilities, and then </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they’<span class="_ _2"/>re all networked together<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y3c7 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Exploitless Exploits</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">In line with the vulnerability of complexity is the f<span class="_ _0"/>act that many of the attack<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y218 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">vectors an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker will utilize don’<span class="_ _0"/>t in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olve exploits in the traditional<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">information security sense. Things lik<span class="_ _0"/>e stack ov<span class="_ _0"/>erows, heap o<span class="_ _0"/>vero<span class="_ _0"/>ws, SQL<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3c9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">injection, cross-site scripting (XSS), and le format bugs are all part of the <span class="_ _2"/>APT </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">hacker’<span class="_ _2"/>s toolkit; howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, they’<span class="_ _2"/>re almost completely unnecessary<span class="_ _2"/>. T<span class="_ _3"/>oday<span class="_ _2"/>, an <span class="_ _0"/>APT </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls13 ws0">hacker can be e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely effecti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e without using a single one of these exploits.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Instead, an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker will simply exploit the fundamental function of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">technologies used e<span class="_ _0"/>verywhere by using them e<span class="_ _0"/>xactly as they were designed, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut to an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">end that is benecial to the attacker<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>A perfect e<span class="_ _0"/>xample of this would be a program </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that uploads les to a remote system. This softw<span class="_ _0"/>are could be used legitimately </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">by a company to transfer les to a partner or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization, or it could be used by an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attacker to transfer condential les to a system in his control. <span class="_ _0"/>The point is that this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">software does not take adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage of an<span class="_ _0"/>y unkno<span class="_ _0"/>wn zero-day aws, coding issues, or </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">conguration problems; instead, it just relies on the nature of a network, the v<span class="_ _0"/>ery </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reason a network e<span class="_ _0"/>xists, and a slight variation in the use of a standard program.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This is similar to the cro<span class="_ _0"/>wbar argument. It is a common point made in the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">information security community that a cro<span class="_ _0"/>wbar has both legitimate uses and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nefarious uses. <span class="_ _0"/>That doesn’t mak<span class="_ _0"/>e the crowbar bad; instead, that denition is left to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the person wielding the cro<span class="_ _0"/>wbar<span class="_ _0"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll cov<span class="_ _0"/>er exploitless e<span class="_ _0"/>xploits more in Chapter 3, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and you’ll learn to appreciate it more in the second part of this book when we co<span class="_ _0"/>ver </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">specic attacks.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It is important to keep in mind what we discussed earlier<span class="_ _2"/>, that these are new </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">problems in our ne<span class="_ _0"/>w dimension of reality<span class="_ _2"/>. In the past, humans didn’t ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">understand ho<span class="_ _0"/>w a network af<span class="_ _0"/>fected their li<span class="_ _0"/>ves. K<span class="_ _0"/>eep that in mind for the rest of this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3de ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">book, and hopefully the rest of your life. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou should also understand that networks </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3df ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are not the only technology that can be fundamentally exploited. Stand-alone </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">computers can still provide e<span class="_ _0"/>xcellent targets to an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker; it all depends on the </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>