<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf2e" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="2e"><div class="pc pc2e w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x34 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 1: Introduction<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">23</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">desired goal of the <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker and the target system. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e will cover these types of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attacks in a later chapter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h7 y2ec ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The W<span class="_ _0"/>eaponizing of Software</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In the past decade and a half, the hacker world has changed a great deal. In that short </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">time, I ne<span class="_ _0"/>ver would ha<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e predicted how drastically things w<span class="_ _0"/>ould change.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3e1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">One of the most interesting and remarkable changes in the information security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and underground communities has been the weaponizing of softw<span class="_ _0"/>are—that is, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">turning software into of<span class="_ _0"/>fensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve tools that can be used by people with little to no </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">understanding of the underlying technology<span class="_ _2"/>. Think of a gun; you stick a premade </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bullet into a gun, point the gun at whate<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er your target is, and pull the trigger<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y217 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">don’t need to understand the comple<span class="_ _0"/>x math that goes into building a gun, ho<span class="_ _0"/>w the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ring mechanism works, the ratio of gunpo<span class="_ _0"/>wder to projectile, or ho<span class="_ _0"/>w strong the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">barrel needs to be. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou simply point and shoot<span class="fs5">.</span></div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3e8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">W<span class="_ _3"/>eaponized software has been dev<span class="_ _0"/>eloped for both commercial and professional </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">audiences, but e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en more interesting are the tools de<span class="_ _0"/>veloped specically for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">criminals. These for<span class="_ _0"/>-sale weaponized of<span class="_ _0"/>ferings for criminals include virus and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2f9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">rootkit de<span class="_ _0"/>velopment kits, web e<span class="_ _0"/>xploit packs, botnets for rent, zero-day exploits </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and more, which often require minimal to no programming kno<span class="_ _0"/>wledge. <span class="_ _0"/>V<span class="_ _2"/>irus and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">rootkit frame<span class="_ _0"/>works allo<span class="_ _0"/>w attackers to create a customized virus with minimal time </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ec ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort using only the functionality the attacker requires. Some of the kits e<span class="_ _0"/>ven </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ed ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">include specialized deli<span class="_ _0"/>very methods.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3ee ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Botnet operators hav<span class="_ _0"/>e started of<span class="_ _0"/>fering hourly rates to use their services. This </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ef ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">includes using the botnet for a DDoS attack, using the hosts as proxies for web </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">bro<span class="_ _0"/>wsing or performing attacks, and ev<span class="_ _0"/>en using the processing po<span class="_ _0"/>wer to crack </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">passwords.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3f2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">By far<span class="_ _2"/>, some of the most interesting software for sale are zero-day exploits. <span class="_ _2"/>A </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">zero-day exploit (or “0-day”) is essentially an e<span class="_ _0"/>xploit for which there is no patch, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">either because the vendor is una<span class="_ _0"/>ware that the vulnerability e<span class="_ _0"/>xists or they ha<span class="_ _0"/>ven’<span class="_ _0"/>t had </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sufcient time to de<span class="_ _0"/>velop a patch. Either way<span class="_ _3"/>, a zero-day exploit is a very po<span class="_ _0"/>werful </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tool in any attack<span class="_ _0"/>er’<span class="_ _0"/>s arsenal.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3f7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Some security groups will sell a zero-day exploit to an<span class="_ _0"/>yone who is willing to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">pay for it, and although the sale will sometimes be limited to one buyer<span class="_ _2"/>, this is not </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3f9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a guarantee. Zero-day exploits in popular softw<span class="_ _0"/>are programs can easily be sold for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3fa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">well ov<span class="_ _0"/>er six gures, with some groups selling subscription-based zero-day exploit </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3fb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">services. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou pay an annual fee to join the network, and when a ne<span class="_ _0"/>w zero-day exploit </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3fc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is released, you’<span class="_ _2"/>re given the pri<span class="_ _0"/>vile<span class="_ _0"/>ge of purchasing it.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>