<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf2f" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="2f"><div class="pc pc2f w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x3b h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">24<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Even scarier is trying to predict the future. If you can b<span class="_ _0"/>uy zero-day exploits </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">today<span class="_ _2"/>, what will you be able to purchase tomorrow? In the future, we’<span class="_ _0"/>ll see access </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to specic companies for sale or trade secrets, intellectual property<span class="_ _2"/>, or any other </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">type of v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable or sensitiv<span class="_ _0"/>e information. Or maybe you’ll nd hack<span class="_ _0"/>ers holding up </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cardboard signs on the highway<span class="_ _2"/>, willing to hack anyone you desire for a small fee. </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">What would you b<span class="_ _0"/>uy if <span class="ff5">any</span> information were for sale?</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">At the top of the list of weaponized software are e<span class="_ _0"/>xploit framew<span class="_ _0"/>orks. The tw<span class="_ _0"/>o </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">most obvious commercial e<span class="_ _0"/>xamples include Metasploit and Can<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>as. It has become </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ridiculously<span class="_ _2"/>, ev<span class="_ _0"/>en laughably<span class="_ _2"/>, easy to ex<span class="_ _0"/>ecute complicated attacks with tools like </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Metasploit. Executing attacks or using remote e<span class="_ _0"/>xploits can be as easy as right-</div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">clicking a node in a nice graphical interface and clicking Go. Once e<span class="_ _0"/>xploited, you </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">can e<span class="_ _0"/>ven turn a compromised host into a proxy with a similar click of the mouse, </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y276 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">which allo<span class="_ _0"/>ws you to attack hosts that are only visible to the compromised host. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>e’ll </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y277 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">look at ex<span class="_ _0"/>ecuting specic attacks using Metasploit in future chapters.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y3b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ultimately<span class="_ _2"/>, the impact of weaponized software on our world will be greater than </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y3b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the ef<span class="_ _0"/>fect of traditional weapons that hav<span class="_ _0"/>e re<span class="_ _0"/>volutionized warf<span class="_ _0"/>are, if for no other </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y27a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reason than the fact that weaponized software is a<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ailable to<span class="ff5"> everyone<span class="_ _0"/>,<span class="ff4"> not just </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y27b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nation-states with deep pockets</div><div class="t m0 x5d hd y3fd ff4 fs5 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">.<span class="fs7"> <span class="_ _0"/>When the atom bomb was in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ented, it re<span class="_ _0"/>volutionized </span></div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y3fe ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">warfare, and e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ery gov<span class="_ _0"/>ernment has been scrambling to dev<span class="_ _0"/>elop the bomb since. It </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y3ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is much easier and just as ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e to implement modern digital weapons of mass </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y3b5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">destruction.</div><div class="t m0 x3c h7 y400 ff1 fs3 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Ineffective Ubiquitous Defenses</div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y401 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Most of today’<span class="_ _2"/>s defensive technologies are almost completely useless against </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y402 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>Things like anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus software, intrusion detection systems, and </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y403 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven re<span class="_ _0"/>walls are considered absolutely necessary for most or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations and see </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y404 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">widespread deployment. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, they don’t actually pro<span class="_ _0"/>vide much of an obstacle </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y405 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y406 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus software is a perfect example of a necessary defense that simply doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y407 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">hold up against an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>. <span class="_ _1b"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou denitely don’t want to run systems without </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y408 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus software, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut you’<span class="_ _0"/>re not using anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus software to pre<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ent attacks from an </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y409 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">APT hacker<span class="_ _2"/>. Most antivirus technologies are signature based, meaning that if a le or </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y40a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ex<span class="_ _0"/>ecutable matches a specic signature, it is agged and acted upon. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>wev<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, this </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y40b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">relies on the fact that a signature has been created for an<span class="_ _0"/>y giv<span class="_ _0"/>en malicious program.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y40c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus vendors do ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve proacti<span class="_ _0"/>ve methods for identifying malicious softw<span class="_ _0"/>are in </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y40d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the wild, but this still relies on the f<span class="_ _0"/>act that a program has been detected by someone </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y40e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as performing a questionable acti<span class="_ _0"/>vity<span class="_ _2"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>An <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker has the adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage of creating </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y40f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">tools and programs that are unique to any attack. <span class="_ _2"/>An <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker doesn’t e<span class="_ _0"/>ven ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>