<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf3a" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="3a"><div class="pc pc3a w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xa h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 2: Empirical Data<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">35</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you through an out-of-band method such as a text message or e-mail to another </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">predened account. <span class="_ _2"/>A few typical “security questions” include</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y4c7 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y4c8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The name of your fa<span class="_ _0"/>vorite pet</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y4c9 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y4ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The street you gre<span class="_ _0"/>w up on</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y4cb ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y4cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>our mother’<span class="_ _0"/>s maiden name</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y4cd ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y4ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Y<span class="_ _1b"/>our fav<span class="_ _0"/>orite teacher in school</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y4cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In this case, the Hollywood Hacker w<span class="_ _0"/>as able to answer the questions correctly and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">then reset the password. Ho<span class="_ _0"/>w did he kno<span class="_ _0"/>w the answers to the questions? By simply </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">searching the Internet for the answers, of course. I can’t think of man<span class="_ _0"/>y easier targets </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">than celebrities for performing recon. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou can probably nd the majority of answers </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for their “security questions” on their <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>ikipedia page or in the myriad of articles in </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">which they are intervie<span class="_ _0"/>wed and re<span class="_ _0"/>veal man<span class="_ _0"/>y personal details freely<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y4d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The Hollywood Hacker kne<span class="_ _0"/>w that when the o<span class="_ _0"/>wner of the e-mail account failed </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to access their accounts, they w<span class="_ _0"/>ould reset the password again to something he did </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not kno<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>, so he set up automatic e-mail forwarding to send a copy of all e-mail </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">messages sent and recei<span class="_ _0"/>ved to the celebrity’<span class="_ _2"/>s real e-mail account to an e-mail </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">account that he had created. This is a perfect e<span class="_ _0"/>xample of not using an exploit in the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">traditional information security sense. Instead, the Hollywood Hacker simply took </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4db ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage of the very function of the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get technologies: security questions and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4dc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e-mail forwarding. <span class="_ _0"/>These inherent weaknesses are not necessarily hard to remov<span class="_ _0"/>e; </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4dd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">they are, ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, extremely pre<span class="_ _0"/>valent in man<span class="_ _0"/>y technologies.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y4de ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Unsophisticated Threat: Neighbor from Hell</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4df ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This sordid and bizarre example of the efcac<span class="_ _0"/>y of an unsophisticated threat might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4e0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">seem like something out of the <span class="ff5">T<span class="_ _3"/>wilight Zone<span class="ff4"> or a cheesy television crime sho<span class="_ _0"/>w<span class="_ _2"/>, but </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4e1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">I assure you this is all true. <span class="_ _2"/>Apparently<span class="_ _0"/>, truth really is stranger than ction. <span class="_ _0"/>This is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4e2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the story of Barry <span class="_ _2"/>Ardolf of Minnesota and what can happen when a mind-boggling </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4e3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">application of aggression and ineptitude meets weaponized software.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y4e4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Between 2008 and 2009, <span class="_ _2"/>Ardolf terrorized his neighbor, Matt K<span class="_ _2"/>ostolnik, by </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4e5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cracking his <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>ired Equi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>alent Priv<span class="_ _0"/>ac<span class="_ _0"/>y (WEP)–secured wireless network and sending </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4e6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">out malicious e-mails that would be traced back to his neighbor’<span class="_ _2"/>s house. In the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4e7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">sentencing position document, the gov<span class="_ _0"/>ernment of Minnesota stated:</div><div class="t m0 x65 hd y4e8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">“When he [Ardolf] became angry at his neighbors, he vented his anger in a </div><div class="t m0 x65 hd y4e9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">bizarre and calculated campaign of terror against them. <span class="_ _2"/>And he did not wage </div><div class="t m0 x65 hd y4ea ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this campaign in the light of day<span class="_ _2"/>, but rather used his computer hacking skills </div><div class="t m0 x65 hd y4eb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to strike at his victims while hiding in the shado<span class="_ _0"/>ws.<span class="_ _2"/>”</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>