<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf40" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="40"><div class="pc pc40 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 xa h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 2: Empirical Data<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">41</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this case, controlling the centrifuges. The PLC then reports data about the operation </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of the hardware back to the Step 7 software.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This PLC rootkit is the rst of its kind e<span class="_ _0"/>ver disco<span class="_ _0"/>vered. Once the PLC is infected, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it can essentially “lie” to the Step 7 monitoring software about what the centrifuges </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are doing. <span class="_ _2"/>A good analogy for this would be if your car had a PLC that was infected, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">it might tell you that you’<span class="_ _2"/>re only driving at 35 MPH when in fact you’<span class="_ _2"/>re driving at </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">100 MPH—a very dangerous lie indeed.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Why would it be benecial to lie about what the centrifuges are doing? <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _2"/>o </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y124 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physically damage them, of course. The infected PLC w<span class="_ _0"/>ould spin the centrifuges at </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y125 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">very high speeds and then slo<span class="_ _0"/>w speeds, which would allo<span class="_ _0"/>w the centrifuge to e<span class="_ _0"/>xpand, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">and then at very high speeds again in an ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort to physically destroy them. <span class="_ _0"/>While this </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is happening, the infected PLC is reporting to the Step 7 software on the <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>indo<span class="_ _0"/>ws </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">computer that e<span class="_ _0"/>verything is ne and that the centrifuges are spinning at a constant </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and normal speed. This made it e<span class="_ _0"/>xtremely difcult for the operators of the computer </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y4b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">to determine why these centrifuges were breaking for no apparent reason.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y39e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Originally<span class="_ _2"/>, the educated hypothesis was that the Stuxnet virus was created to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y39f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">target Iranian nuclear f<span class="_ _0"/>acilities—in particular<span class="_ _0"/>, the Natanz uranium enrichment </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nuclear facility in Iran. It was also speculated by man<span class="_ _0"/>y experts that the United States </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">was responsible for creating Stuxnet, most likely in collaboration with Israel. <span class="_ _2"/>A </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">very interesting f<span class="_ _0"/>act is that Iran cannot legally purchase Microsoft <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _0"/>indo<span class="_ _0"/>ws, as it is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">controlled under U.S. export la<span class="_ _0"/>ws.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y57c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Reports hav<span class="_ _0"/>e sho<span class="_ _0"/>wn that Stuxnet might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e been responsible for as much </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">as a 30 percent decrease in operational capacity at Natanz alone, as well as the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">physical destruction of up to 1,000 centrifuges. It was unclear whether the source </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization’<span class="_ _2"/>s mission was to destroy all of Iran’<span class="_ _2"/>s centrifuges or whether they </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">wanted to simply slo<span class="_ _0"/>w them do<span class="_ _0"/>wn by confusing and frustrating them. Either way<span class="_ _2"/>, the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">results are pretty staggering.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y3aa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In June 2012, almost exactly tw<span class="_ _0"/>o years after Stuxnet rst started getting press, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y3ab ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the <span class="ff5 ws21">New Y<span class="_ _1b"/>ork <span class="_ _5"/>Times<span class="ff4 ws0"> released an article containing a urry of details. <span class="_ _0"/>The article </span></span></div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y57f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reported that the creation of Stuxnet was started under the Bush administration under </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y580 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a project code-named Olympic Games. The project w<span class="_ _0"/>as continued under the Obama </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y581 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">administration, and Obama himself might hav<span class="_ _0"/>e made a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w of the ke<span class="_ _0"/>y decisions to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y582 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws22">continue the ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort (www<span class="_ _2"/>.nytimes.com/2012/06/01/world/middleeast/obama-ordered-</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y583 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">wa<span class="_ _0"/>ve-of-c<span class="_ _0"/>yberattacks-against-iran.html). <span class="_ _2"/>According to the article, Stuxnet was </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y584 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">created through a collaborati<span class="_ _0"/>ve ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort between the United States and Israel to target </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y585 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">nuclear facilities in Iran. It also stated that the worm only spread into the wild after a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y586 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">supposedly secret change to Stuxnet was made by the Israelis. Ostensibly<span class="_ _2"/>, the article </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y587 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">was written based on intervie<span class="_ _0"/>ws of “current and former <span class="_ _2"/>American, European and </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y588 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Israeli ofcials in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olved in the [Olympic Games] program.<span class="_ _3"/>” Howe<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, some ofcials </div><a class="" href="http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/01/world/middleeast/obama-ordered-wave-of-cyberattacks-against-iran.html"><div class="d m1" style="border-style:none;position:absolute;left:199.667423px;bottom:186.291761px;width:288.000000px;height:12.000000px;background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.000001);"/></a><a class="" href="http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/01/world/middleeast/obama-ordered-wave-of-cyberattacks-against-iran.html"><div class="d m1" style="border-style:none;position:absolute;left:94.452003px;bottom:169.360544px;width:179.000000px;height:12.000000px;background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.000001);"/></a></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>