<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf45" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="45"><div class="pc pc45 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x3b h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">46<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">a pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously discov<span class="_ _0"/>ered virus, which could potentially make a specic worm less </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">desirable to use if true organizational anon<span class="_ _0"/>ymity is a requirement.</div><div class="t m0 x3c h4 y48c ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">APT<span class="_ _2"/>: RSA Compromise</div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y48d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The compromise of the RSA Company is a v<span class="_ _0"/>ery interesting story indeed. RSA is </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y48e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">best kno<span class="_ _0"/>wn for their SecurID product, which allows companies to easily inte<span class="_ _0"/>grate </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y48f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">two-factor authentication into man<span class="_ _0"/>y di<span class="_ _0"/>verse systems. <span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _3"/>wo-factor authentication </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y37b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">systems work by ha<span class="_ _0"/>ving a user prov<span class="_ _0"/>e two things: something the<span class="_ _0"/>y know<span class="_ _3"/>, like a </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y490 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">personal security ke<span class="_ _0"/>y or PIN, and something they possess, typically a physical token </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y491 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">displaying six digits that change e<span class="_ _0"/>very 60 seconds<span class="fs5">.</span> By sending both pieces of data </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y5ff ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">in an authentication request, the user prov<span class="_ _0"/>es they are in possession of the physical </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y493 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">token as well as kno<span class="_ _0"/>wledge of the pri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ate PIN password. This system is considered </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y494 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">much more secure than the traditional password, and is implemented in some v<span class="_ _0"/>ery </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y495 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">important companies.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y496 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The compromise of the RSA network does not represent just another compan<span class="_ _0"/>y </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y600 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">falling victim to a random assault. Instead, RSA was purposefully compromised </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y601 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">for a very specic reason. RSA determined that the people behind the attack were </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y602 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">looking to use the information they obtained to compromise companies that use RSA </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y49a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">technology<span class="_ _2"/>, including U.S. defense contractors. The attackers who compromised the </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y49b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">RSA network started their attack by sending a phishing e-mail to a small group of </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y49c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">users at the company<span class="_ _3"/>. The phishing e-mail included a spreadsheet that contained a </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y603 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">zero-day exploit for <span class="_ _2"/>Adobe Flash (CVE-2011-0609), which allowed the attack<span class="_ _0"/>ers to </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y604 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">install a remote administration tool.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y605 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">An interesting fact is that the attackers chose to use the Poison Ivy remote </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y606 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">administration tool, a some<span class="_ _0"/>what well-known <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>indows tool, to remotely manipulate </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y607 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the compromised computers. It might point to a lack of certain capabilities that the </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y608 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attackers chose to use this, or it might mean that the<span class="_ _0"/>y wished to use something that </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y609 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">could not necessarily be traced back to them as the authors. Poison Ivy contains </div><div class="t m0 x3c hd y60a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">many features you w<span class="_ _0"/>ould expect from a well-de<span class="_ _0"/>veloped backdoor<span class="_ _2"/>, including</div><div class="t m0 x20 h1f y60b ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x61 hd y60c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Bro<span class="_ _0"/>wse, search, upload, and download les</div><div class="t m0 x20 h1f y60d ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x61 hd y60e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Capture encrypted password hashes (LM and NTLM)</div><div class="t m0 x20 h1f y60f ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x61 hd y610 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Capture audio</div><div class="t m0 x20 h1f y611 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x61 hd y612 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Manage processes</div><div class="t m0 x20 h1f y613 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x61 hd y614 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Manipulate the registry</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>