<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf52" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="52"><div class="pc pc52 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x79 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 3: APT Hacker Methodology<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">59</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Always T<span class="_ _3"/>arget the Weakest Link</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Many attack<span class="_ _0"/>ers simply target the systems the<span class="_ _0"/>y know ho<span class="_ _0"/>w to compromise. <span class="_ _2"/>An <span class="_ _2"/>APT </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">hacker analyzes a tar<span class="_ _0"/>get organization and specically identies and selects the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">weakest link for attack. F<span class="_ _0"/>or example, a hacker that has skill in web security might </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">try to target an or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization’<span class="_ _2"/>s web servers. The hack<span class="_ _0"/>er might attempt SQL injection, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cross-site scripting, or parameter manipulation on a target’<span class="_ _2"/>s web application. If it’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y52f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">not vulnerable, he might simply mov<span class="_ _0"/>e on to another target.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y2d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">An <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker has an entire toolset of attacks and techniques to choose from, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y709 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and is able to choose the technique that exploits the specic weak<span class="_ _0"/>est link in the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">chain at the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization to quickly get access to their desired asset. Because </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of this, an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker can guarantee success by performing ample reconnaissance, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">understanding his target, w<span class="_ _0"/>aiting for the opportune time, and then targeting the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">weakest link.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y70e ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Efcacious, Not Elite</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y70f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">An <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker prioritizes nothing higher than being effecti<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e. <span class="_ _2"/>Always targeting the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y710 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">weakest link means that an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker understands that nothing is more important </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y711 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">than efcacy<span class="_ _3"/>. If something works, an <span class="_ _0"/>APT hack<span class="_ _0"/>er will use it. Sorry<span class="_ _2"/>, you don’t get </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y712 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cool points for being elite.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y713 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When I was younger and read stories of nontechnical hackers compromising </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y714 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">targets using only social engineering, I w<span class="_ _0"/>ould think, “So what? The<span class="_ _0"/>y cheated. Of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y715 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">course, you can always get in with social engineering.<span class="_ _3"/>” Since that time, I’<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e learned </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y716 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">that with a targeted attack, there’<span class="_ _2"/>s no such thing as cheating and no such thing as </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y717 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">elite; only compromised or not compromised, success or failure.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y718 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Exploitless Exploits</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y719 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Whene<span class="_ _0"/>ver possible, an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker will prefer to use exploitless e<span class="_ _0"/>xploits. Remember </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y71a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">from Chapter 1 that exploitless e<span class="_ _0"/>xploits work by simply using a technology as it’<span class="_ _2"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y71b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">intended to accomplish our goals. This doesn’<span class="_ _0"/>t mean that an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker will nev<span class="_ _0"/>er </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y71c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">use a custom exploit or e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>en a canned exploit; instead, an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker assigns a </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y71d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">certain preference to exploitless e<span class="_ _0"/>xploits. <span class="_ _3"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou’ll notice attacks that are considered </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y71e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">exploitless e<span class="_ _0"/>xploits in all phases.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y71f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls17 ws16">One of the simplest examples of an e<span class="_ _0"/>xploitless exploit could be tailgating<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y720 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls17 ws16">on an administrati<span class="_ _0"/>ve channel. Most people are probably familiar with physical<span class="_ _0"/> </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y721 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls17 ws16">tailgating in which we physically follo<span class="_ _0"/>w an authorized person into a restricted </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y722 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls17 ws16">area. T<span class="_ _3"/>echnical tailgating relies on the same concept: If we can follow an e<span class="_ _0"/>xisting </div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>