<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf58" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="58"><div class="pc pc58 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x79 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 3: APT Hacker Methodology<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">65</span></div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y447 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y448 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Determine the traditional answer (assumptions)</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y7a2 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y7a3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Question the traditional answer (question assumptions)</div><div class="t m0 x16 h1f y7a4 ffb fse fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">c</div><div class="t m0 x1 hd y7a5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Analyze the exact opposite of the traditional answer (contradict assumptions)</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y7a6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">What does it mean to analyze the exact opposite of the traditional answer for </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7a7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security? One common approach would be to consider the e<span class="_ _0"/>xistence of a security </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7a8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">control to be a positi<span class="_ _0"/>ve thing for the <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _2"/>. For example, rather than thinking </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7a9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of a badge access control system as being a deterrent, maybe it means that with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7aa ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">something as simple as a badge (or a forged badge), you’<span class="_ _0"/>ll hav<span class="_ _0"/>e free rein of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7ab ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">interior of your target b<span class="_ _0"/>uilding. Or maybe kno<span class="_ _0"/>wledge of the specic anti<span class="_ _0"/>virus </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7ac ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">technology in place can be used in a targeted phishing campaign or e<span class="_ _0"/>xploited </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7ad ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">directly<span class="_ _2"/>. If nothing else, you could consider some technologies or controls to giv<span class="_ _0"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7ae ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals a false sense of security<span class="_ _2"/>, making it a perfect target for a direct attack. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7af ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will discuss this and more in discussion of future attacks.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y7b0 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Look for Misdirection</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Hav<span class="_ _0"/>e you e<span class="_ _0"/>ver seen a really good magic trick in<span class="_ _2"/>volving a magician making things </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">disappear and reappear with only his hands? Ever w<span class="_ _0"/>anted to know ho<span class="_ _0"/>w the magician </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">is capable of such amazing things? It’<span class="_ _2"/>s simple: When a magician wants you to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">look at his left hand, look at his right hand. <span class="_ _2"/>Also, notice the techniques a magician </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">will use to direct you to look at the hand he wants you to focus on. Man<span class="_ _0"/>y times, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the magician will make big sho<span class="_ _0"/>wy displays and he will look at the hand himself </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b7 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">while the other hand will mov<span class="_ _0"/>e silently<span class="_ _2"/>, smoothly<span class="_ _2"/>, and as naturally as possible in an </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7b8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">attempt to av<span class="_ _0"/>oid an<span class="_ _0"/>y attention at all.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y7b9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The same exact technique (or unintentional phenomenon) of misdirection can </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7ba ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">be seen in security<span class="_ _2"/>. When an or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization makes a big sho<span class="_ _0"/>wy display of security<span class="_ _2"/>, </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7bb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ask yourself, “If I’m focusing on what they w<span class="_ _0"/>ant me to see, what am I not seeing?” </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7bc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">This misdirection may be done intentionally by defenders or may be just another </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7bd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">recurring phenomenon of human nature.</div><div class="t m0 x4 hd y7be ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">In smaller organizations with limited staf<span class="_ _0"/>f, a security engineer familiar with </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7bf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">network security might be far more lik<span class="_ _0"/>ely to focus on technology to secure the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7c0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">network while completely ne<span class="_ _0"/>glecting other areas such as host-hardening standards. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7c1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">This may be less of an issue for larger or<span class="_ _0"/>ganizations that might be able to af<span class="_ _0"/>ford </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7c2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">large teams of security indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals who each ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve their o<span class="_ _0"/>wn unique skill sets. <span class="_ _2"/>A more </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7c3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">common scenario might be an information security team that focuses on technical </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7c4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">security controls while completely neglecting training end users on secure beha<span class="_ _0"/>vior<span class="_ _2"/>. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7c5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In either case, the concept still holds true. If you can see a lot of ef<span class="_ _0"/>fort or a large </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y7c6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">display of security in one area, you need to nd the area that is being neglected.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>