<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf59" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="59"><div class="pc pc59 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x5a h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">66<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The idea of security misdirection can also be a side ef<span class="_ _0"/>fect of what Bruce Schneier </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">calls “security theater<span class="_ _2"/>.<span class="_ _2"/>” Security theater can best be summed up as a display of </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">security ef<span class="_ _0"/>forts used to make an organization appear to be secure to mak<span class="_ _0"/>e their </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y15c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">personnel or customers feel secure, without having much to really back it up. So </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y15d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">again, ask yourself: If this organization is making a sho<span class="_ _0"/>wy display of security in a </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y271 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">specic area, which area might be considered a security problem?</div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y272 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">What’<span class="_ _2"/>s a real world example of this? <span class="_ _0"/>Think about how man<span class="_ _0"/>y places you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve visited </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y160 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">that hav<span class="_ _0"/>e a big sho<span class="_ _0"/>wy display of physical perimeter security—large foreboding </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y161 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">walls, fences, guards, and cameras on e<span class="_ _0"/>very w<span class="_ _0"/>all. That may be the w<span class="_ _0"/>ay they protect </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y273 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">their primary physical ingress and egress points, b<span class="_ _0"/>ut what about the back or side </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y274 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">entrances? Do these points hav<span class="_ _0"/>e the same le<span class="_ _0"/>vel of control? I’m sure there are some </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y275 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">places where they are, in f<span class="_ _0"/>act, just as well protected, but the f<span class="_ _0"/>act is that for the </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y276 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">majority of organizations, this is probably not the case. <span class="_ _0"/>The same is often true of </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y277 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">digital and cyber<span class="_ _0"/>-security<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x24 h4 y7c7 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Think Through the Pain</div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7c8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The ability to think through the pain is a necessary skill for turning your initial </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7c9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">unrestricted thoughts into v<span class="_ _0"/>aluable and actionable gems. <span class="_ _0"/>What does it mean to think </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">through the pain? It means to think past obvious roadblocks or problems to get to </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">your goals. <span class="_ _2"/>As an example, many people might see a guard station and think that’<span class="_ _2"/>s a </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">good line of defense: only authorized indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals can get past that. Howe<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>er<span class="_ _0"/>, an <span class="_ _2"/>APT </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hacker sees this and kno<span class="_ _0"/>ws there are ways of manipulating e<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ery security control </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">and that, at best, a guard station will just be a bump in the road and not necessarily a </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7cf ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">pre<span class="_ _0"/>ventati<span class="_ _0"/>ve control.</div><div class="t m0 x25 hd y7d0 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">In addition, as an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>, you must learn to analyze the possible outcome </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d1 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">of your attacks e<span class="_ _0"/>ven if it might seem ne<span class="_ _0"/>gativ<span class="_ _0"/>e at rst. For e<span class="_ _0"/>xample, ho<span class="_ _0"/>w might an </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">organization react to a DDoS attack against their primary Internet perimeter? Or ho<span class="_ _0"/>w </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d3 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">would the<span class="_ _0"/>y respond to a series of unsophisticated large-scale phishing attacks against </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d4 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">their organization? <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>ould this be benecial to you? <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _2"/>ould it direct their attention </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d5 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">to a specic area, allo<span class="_ _0"/>wing your real attack to go unnoticed and giving you a better </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d6 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">chance of success?</div><div class="t m0 x24 h4 y7d7 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">A<span class="_ _0"/>void T<span class="_ _2"/>unnel Vision</div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d8 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It can be easy to focus so intently on one task on your way to reaching your lar<span class="_ _0"/>ger </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7d9 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">goal that you get lost in that task alone. <span class="_ _2"/>As an <span class="_ _0"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _2"/>, you must recognize when </div><div class="t m0 x24 hd y7da ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">this happens to you, step back, and focus on the larger goal.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>