<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf5c" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="5c"><div class="pc pc5c w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x79 h10 y83 ff2 fs2 fc0 sc0 ls8 ws0">Chapter 3: APT Hacker Methodology<span class="_ _9"> </span><span class="ff1 fs9 lsa">69</span></div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y2c9 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Exploitation</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ca ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Exploitation is probably the phase e<span class="_ _0"/>veryone’<span class="_ _2"/>s minds go straight to when discussing </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cb ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">hacking. Exploitation is the phase where you take adv<span class="_ _0"/>antage of the vulnerabilities </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cc ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve identied in the previous tw<span class="_ _0"/>o phases of reconnaissance and enumeration. </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2cd ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">This will typically get you some foothold into a target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization. <span class="_ _0"/>The key to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y2ce ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">success during the exploitation phase is to ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve prepared properly<span class="_ _3"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y814 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Maintaining Access</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y815 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Maintaining access is another critical step for an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>. <span class="_ _0"/>This step in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olves </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y816 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">leaving a method for you to easily re<span class="_ _0"/>gain access to the compromised system if the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y817 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">vulnerability you initially exploited is mitigated or otherwise inaccessible. <span class="_ _0"/>This is </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y818 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">extremely important and can be accomplished in man<span class="_ _0"/>y ways depending on the tar<span class="_ _0"/>get </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y819 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">system and network. <span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _3"/>e’ll cov<span class="_ _0"/>er many options for maintaining access in a future </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y81a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">chapter<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y81b ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Clean Up</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y81c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Cleaning up can take man<span class="_ _0"/>y different forms during an attack. <span class="_ _0"/>This may in<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>olve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y81d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">cleaning up e<span class="_ _0"/>vidence of successful exploitation, remo<span class="_ _0"/>ving evidence of the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y81e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">method used to maintain access to a system, or completely removing all traces of </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y81f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">enumeration and reconnaissance.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y820 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Progression</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y821 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">Progression can also take on man<span class="_ _0"/>y different forms. In some cases, it may be gaining </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y822 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">more rights to the system that was compromised during the e<span class="_ _0"/>xploitation phase </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y823 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">or gaining access to more systems on the target netw<span class="_ _0"/>ork. Some people refer to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y824 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">parts of this phase as lily-padding, leapfrogging, or pi<span class="_ _0"/>voting in which we use the </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y825 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">compromised system to target other systems on the internal netw<span class="_ _0"/>ork. <span class="_ _0"/>Whatev<span class="_ _0"/>er you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y826 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">call it, progressing deeper into the target or<span class="_ _0"/>ganization until we reach our intended </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y827 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">goal or asset presents its o<span class="_ _0"/>wn unique challenges.</div><div class="t m0 x3 h4 y828 ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Exltration</div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y829 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">As an <span class="_ _2"/>APT hacker<span class="_ _0"/>, you must consider the most ef<span class="_ _0"/>fectiv<span class="_ _0"/>e way to get the data you </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y82a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">need from your target. <span class="_ _0"/>Whether that data is as small as a user name and passw<span class="_ _0"/>ord to </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y82b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">another target system or as lar<span class="_ _0"/>ge as a multiterabyte archi<span class="_ _0"/>ve, we will discuss ef<span class="_ _0"/>fecti<span class="_ _0"/>ve </div><div class="t m0 x3 hd y82c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">and stealthy ways to do this in Chapter 10.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>