<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf61" class="pf w2 h2" data-page-no="61"><div class="pc pc61 w2 h2"><div class="t m0 x29 h10 y83 ff1 fs9 fc0 sc0 lsa ws0">74<span class="_ _d"> </span><span class="ff2 fs2 ls8">Advanced Persistent Threat Hacking<span class="_ _1e"/> </span></div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y11c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">taking someone far too long to trace it back to your true physical location, at which </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y11d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">point you’<span class="_ _2"/>ve already moved to a ne<span class="_ _0"/>w location.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y11e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">It can be extremely easy to obtain these pi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ots in other countries. Not only can </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y11f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we scan for easily exploitable vulnerabilities in IP ranges in our tar<span class="_ _0"/>get country<span class="_ _2"/>, but </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y120 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven more simply<span class="_ _2"/>, we can purchase hosted servers or virtual pri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>ate servers in these </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y121 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">countries. The second method has man<span class="_ _0"/>y adv<span class="_ _0"/>antages, including guaranteed uptime </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y398 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">on a system we can rely on. It’<span class="_ _2"/>s easy to purchase these systems using the payment </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y399 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">methods we discussed pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously<span class="_ _2"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y124 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">By using a compromised system, we might be limited to tunneling trafc from our </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y125 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">system, as installing tools or performing any other actions that lea<span class="_ _0"/>ve les on the disk </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y126 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">of the system could alert administrators to our presence. Choosing to use dedicated </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y39a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">servers, ho<span class="_ _0"/>we<span class="_ _0"/>ver<span class="_ _2"/>, will allow us to install an<span class="_ _0"/>y tools we choose on the systems without </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y39b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">worrying about being caught. In this case, we can simply use SSH to access the nal </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y4b2 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">system and launch our tools and attacks directly from there.</div><div class="t m0 x28 h4 y87e ff2 fs1 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">Anonymous Phone Calls</div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y87f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">When we specically need to use phone systems—for example, when performing </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y880 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">reconnaissance by calling indi<span class="_ _0"/>viduals or performing social engineering attacks—</div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y881 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">we obviously do not w<span class="_ _0"/>ant to use a phone that has any connection to us. One of the </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y882 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">least sophisticated and easiest methods is a traditional burn phone, a phone used </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y883 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">temporarily and then discarded when we’<span class="_ _2"/>re nished.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y884 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">There are ridiculously inexpensi<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e cell phones that do not require a contact and </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y885 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">are perfect burn phones, some under $10. <span class="_ _0"/>There are many Internet retailers where </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y886 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">you can buy these phones, or you can go to an<span class="_ _0"/>y mall where you’<span class="_ _2"/>re likely to nd </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y887 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">at least a fe<span class="_ _0"/>w kiosks with cheap cell phones. Purchase an inexpensi<span class="_ _0"/>ve b<span class="_ _0"/>urn phone </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y888 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">using cash or the methods mentioned pre<span class="_ _0"/>viously<span class="_ _2"/>, and you can add call minutes by </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y889 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">purchasing “pay as you go” cards. In Chapter 8, we’ll co<span class="_ _0"/>ver obtaining an <span class="_ _2"/>Android-</div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y88a ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">based smart phone, which can also be used as a burner phone that pro<span class="_ _0"/>vides us with a </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y88b ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">lot of additional features.</div><div class="t m0 x16 hd y88c ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">If it’<span class="_ _2"/>s necessary to spoof your caller ID, there are inexpensiv<span class="_ _0"/>e services such as </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y88d ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">SpoofCard, which can be used on any cell phone or traditional analog phone. <span class="_ _1b"/>Y<span class="_ _3"/>ou </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y88e ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">should understand that in most cases, it is rather tri<span class="_ _0"/>vial, if not extremely easy<span class="_ _2"/>, for </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y88f ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">law enforcement to trace the physical location of cell phones. <span class="_ _0"/>The cell phone doesn’t </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y890 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">e<span class="_ _0"/>ven need to ha<span class="_ _0"/>ve made a phone call; if the cell phone is on and re<span class="_ _0"/>gistered with </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y891 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">a cell to<span class="_ _0"/>wer<span class="_ _0"/>, then it is possible to trace the physical location. Thus, you’<span class="_ _0"/>ll hav<span class="_ _0"/>e to </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y892 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 lsb ws16">be careful to physically po<span class="_ _0"/>wer off your phone when not in use, dri<span class="_ _0"/>v<span class="_ _0"/>e to a hidden </div><div class="t m0 x28 hd y893 ff4 fs7 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">location and po<span class="_ _0"/>wer on the phone, place your calls, and then power of<span class="_ _0"/>f the cell phone.</div></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.209373,0.000000,0.000000,1.209373,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>