<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xml:lang="en-US" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Communication Skills for Pharmacists: Building Relationships, Improving Patient Care, Third Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2" id="ch2"><a id="page_25"/>CHAPTER <big>2</big></h2>
<h2 class="h2a"><em>DEVELOPING THE<br/>RELATIONSHIP</em></h2>
<p class="noindent">Because pharmaceutical care requires an ethical covenant with the patient, the relationship between the patient and pharmacist is, by definition, very important. This chapter explores principles for building relationships with patients and providers. The major focus initially will be on the patient&#8211;pharmacist relationship. This relationship is critical to the provision of pharmaceutical care.</p>
<h3 class="h3">WHY RELATIONSHIPS MATTER</h3>
<p class="noindent">Why should we care about building effective relationships with our patients? Hepler and Strand<sup><a id="ch2-ref1" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2_ref1">1</a></sup> defined pharmaceutical care as &#8220;the responsible provision of drug therapy for the purpose of achieving definite outcomes that improve a patient&#8217;s quality of life&#8221; and stated that, among other criteria, &#8220;the provider [of pharmaceutical care] must be able to develop the relationships with the patient and other health care professionals needed to provide pharmaceutical care.&#8221; So it seems clear that a productive relationship is needed to provide pharmaceutical care.</p>
<p class="noindent">Moreover, according to numerous studies, patient satisfaction with the patient&#8211;provider relationship improves compliance with treatment regimens. In the psychology literature the terms <em>therapeutic alliance, working alliance</em>, and <em>helping alliance</em> have been used to describe the necessary relationship that must exist between a counselor or psychotherapist and a client for positive therapeutic change to take place. Therapeutic alliance is defined as &#8220;the observable ability of the therapist and patient to work together in a realistic, collaborative relationship based on mutual respect, liking, trust and commitment to the work of treatment.&#8221;<sup><a id="ch2-ref2" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2_ref2">2</a></sup> Some researchers have gone so far as to say that the therapeutic alliance <em>is</em> the collaboration exhibited by the patient.<sup><a id="ch2-ref3" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2_ref3">3</a></sup> The quality of the alliance is a function of the extent to which the patient and therapist agree about the goals and tasks of psychotherapy. This thinking can be applied to pharmaceutical care; pharmacotherapeutic goals and <a id="page_26"/>outcomes and the behaviors needed to carry them out must be negotiated between pharmacist and patient if treatment has any chance of being effective. Therapeutic alliance is the best predictor of therapeutic outcomes,<sup><a id="ch2-ref4" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2_ref4">4</a></sup> and this seems to hold true in pharmacy as well as in psychotherapy.</p>
<p class="indent">To understand the importance of relationships, imagine this: You are driving down the street at 35 miles per hour and suddenly someone pulls out in front of you. You slam on your brakes to avoid hitting the other car. Fortunately, the cars don&#8217;t collide and you are fine, except for being visibly upset. What emotions are you feeling right now? What do you believe most people feel (or do) when this happens? If you are like most people, in addition to slamming on your brakes, you probably leaned on your horn for a good while, yelled several epithets, and were very angry (we get very brave when we have a ton of steel protecting us).</p>
<p class="indent">Now, imagine that the same thing has occurred but that this time, when you are through ranting, you realize the person in the other car is your priest (or rabbi, minister, or good friend). Now how do you feel? You still may be very upset about the threat to your life that just occurred, but chances are you are now feeling somewhat embarrassed about your angry reaction. Why is this? Why does your reaction change when you find out it is someone you know, particularly someone who means something to you? The answer is that you have a positive relationship with that person. When a relationship exists, especially one that is built on some degree of trust and caring, several things happen: We are more forgiving, more compassionate, more understanding, less quick to judge, and less abusive in our responses. This is very important to understand in regard to your relationship with patients.</p>
<p class="indent">When we don&#8217;t have a relationship with someone, when the other person is simply seen as an object, we&#8217;re much more likely to behave in ways that are not productive. As another example, imagine that you have to return something you bought at a department store because it does not fit you. The clerk at the department store will not allow you to return the item and quotes store policy. You are frustrated and angry and display this anger toward the clerk. How much different would this scenario be if the clerk happened to be a good friend of yours? Would you be more willing to understand the store policy and be compassionate toward the clerk if he or she were your friend?</p>
<p class="indent">What would be some of the benefits if patients saw you as human and caring rather than someone who simply works in the pharmacy? I believe patients would be more tolerant about waiting, more loyal, more likely to comply with their medication regimens, and more likely to provide information you need to make better therapeutic decisions&#8212;and <a id="page_27"/>less likely to sue if there was a mistake. In addition, pharmacists who maintain positive relationships with their patients would experience less burnout and more satisfying practices.</p>
<p class="indent">The fact of the matter is, human beings need relationships. We need to feel understood and cared for by others. As Basch<sup><a id="ch2-ref5" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2_ref5">5</a></sup> states, &#8220;For the rest of our lives, though we tend not to be aware of it, the need to communicate on some level with other human beings&#8212;that is, to make ourselves understood or understandable, and in doing so feel cared for, safe, stimulated, and appreciated&#8212;remains the prime motivator for all that we do or don&#8217;t do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="indent">Human beings also need reciprocity. If I met you for the first time today and we engaged in casual conversation, we would both want to walk away feeling good about each other afterward. That is, I want to believe you are a good person and you want to believe the same about me. When this does not occur, one or both of us become anxious. When we approach people, we desire to feel good about the relationship even if the encounter is brief. It is important to note that in health care we do not have the luxury of normal, reciprocal relationships; that is, we are there to serve the needs of patients, but they are not there to serve our needs.</p>
<h3 class="h3">A MENTAL HEALTH PERSPECTIVE</h3>
<p class="noindent">I will discuss relationships in the context of mental health. First, mental health is not about happiness. It is about adjusting internal tensions rather than external tensions. This means that it is far easier (and more useful) to adjust ourselves and the way we respond than to try to change or fix others. It is about the appropriate management of suffering. Life causes all of us to suffer to some degree on a daily basis. Our patients can cause us suffering through their anger, their impatience, or their sense of loss when they find out they have a chronic illness. We can cause our patients to suffer through uncaring or indifferent responses.</p>
<p class="indent">It is what we do with suffering that determines how healthy or effective we are and how productive our relationships are. Do we avoid it? Become numb? Do our defenses go up? Or do we allow our suffering to be instructive and assist us in solving the problems at hand? These are choices we make all the time. The question is, to what extent do we make these choices in a way that produces constructive, healthy outcomes, rather than unhealthy ones?</p>
<p class="indent">Mental health is about solving problems, and communication concerns itself with communicating ways to solve problems. It should be clear, however, that part of the management of problems or suffering is taking appropriate responsibility for problems. That is, healthy people <a id="page_28"/>don&#8217;t ignore their problems or blame others for them, nor do they take responsibility for solving others&#8217; problems. They are able to stay separate from others&#8217; problems so that they are not unduly burdened or manipulated by those who <em>don&#8217;t</em> want to take appropriate responsibility. By staying separate they are actually better able to listen and be compassionate.</p>
<p class="indent">In later chapters I will say more about healthy responses and productive relationships, focusing on the basic tenets that are described in the following paragraphs.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>People behave in order to get their needs met.</strong> It is important to know this, because it may help you understand why people behave in certain ways. For example, every time a particular patient comes into your pharmacy he complains about something, because he gets attention in that way. If you understand this, you won&#8217;t need to react to the complaints, only acknowledge the person. You might even be able to give this person your attention for not complaining.</p>
<p class="indent">Given their current level of and response to stress (change), people always use their best problem-solving strategies to get their needs met, even if these strategies are dysfunctional. In other words, people do what they know, even if it gets them in trouble. To change that, they must learn a new way of coping. Patients need to learn new ways of coping with illnesses and pharmacists need to learn new ways of coping with patients. It is my hope that this book will assist you in learning new and effective ways of managing your relationships with your patients.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Feelings are real.</strong> They are feedback about how we respond to the world. If effective relationships with others are to be built, then the others&#8217; feelings must be acknowledged in a very caring and tangible way. Feelings help us navigate, in that they tell us when we are frightened, happy, angry, hurt, and so on. They are not good or bad, right or wrong. They are simply feedback. We need this feedback, because we need to know, for example, when we are happy and when we are threatened. Healthy individuals acknowledge their own feelings and use them to learn about themselves and how they respond to the world. They learn about what situations stress them, make them feel relaxed, afraid, angry, and so on. This is important information.</p>
<p class="indent">When a feeling comes up, particularly if it is uncomfortable, we may avoid it or become numb to it. This response is common, but it may create problems. Consider this analogy: If you severed nerve endings in your hand and then touched a hot stove with that hand, you might end up severely burning that hand without feeling it. Like our nerve endings, feelings provide important feedback to us about who we are right now. That may change over time, but we need that feedback to decide if change is necessary. Avoiding feelings and going numb in <a id="page_29"/>response to certain feelings causes us to lose important information about how we respond in different situations. This can create problems for us. Moreover, our ability to respond to or accept our patients&#8217; feelings is limited by the extent to which we are willing to accept our own feelings. For feelings to be understood and to give us useful information, we must be able to bear them and see what they tell us. Decisions made without this awareness are often poor decisions.</p>
<p class="indent">But where do feelings come from? What causes them? As we grow, important people in our lives teach us what they consider to be important. We develop a set of values as a result. In addition, the way significant others respond to us when we have certain feelings often determines how we think about our own feelings. Finally, we develop our reactions (feelings) by watching people who were important to us as we grew up. Therefore, when we are placed in various communication contexts we assign meaning to what is said and done on the basis of these learnings (values). The meaning we assign then produces a feeling in us.</p>
<p class="indent">This explains why the same thing can be said to different individuals and produce entirely different affective responses. It should also teach us that others do <em>not</em> cause our feelings. Again, feelings are caused by the meanings we assign to others&#8217; communication within a given context.</p>
<p class="indent">A few more points about feelings. While our feelings are not under our volitional control, what we do when they come up is a choice we can make. Having a feeling does not always mean expressing the feeling. Somehow the idea of acknowledging or validating our own feelings or others&#8217; feelings gets confused with expressing a feeling. The latter is not always wise. Expressing the anger you feel could get you fired, for example. You can certainly be aware of your anger and acknowledge your right to have it, but this does not always mean expressing it. You can choose not to express anger when doing so is inappropriate.</p>
<p class="indent">The consistent ability to discern when it is appropriate and useful to express our feelings and when it is not distinguishes health from illness. The ability to delay gratification and practice emotional self-regulation is a hallmark of emotional intelligence, a strong predictor of success in relationships.<sup><a id="ch2-ref6" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2_ref6">6</a></sup></p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Although patients ultimately have responsibility for their own medication-taking behavior, pharmacists may have substantial influence on this behavior.</strong> This is important to understand. We cannot make patients take their medication, nor do we manage the patient&#8217;s illness. What we <em>can</em> do is to create a climate of care, concern, and trust in which patients are motivated to manage their illnesses.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_30"/><strong>Communication can be evaluated as appropriate or inappropriate only in relation to the objectives of the communicator.</strong> For example, a patient angrily tells a pharmacist, &#8220;You&#8217;re just like my doctor&#8212;all he cares about is taking my money!&#8221; The pharmacist has choices about how to respond. If the pharmacist&#8217;s objective is to let the patient know that he or she is tired of complaining patients, an appropriate response would be, &#8220;I am sick and tired of you people complaining about prices and how badly you&#8217;re being treated. Now don&#8217;t let the door hit you in the *!*! on the way out!&#8221; However, if the pharmacist is interested in letting the patient know that he or she understands the patient&#8217;s frustration, the pharmacist could respond, &#8220;I know that medication can be expensive. I try to be reasonable and fair about my prices. Have I done something to make you feel that I&#8217;m trying to take advantage of you?&#8221; Depending on the communication objective, the responses will be very different and produce different results.</p>
<p class="indent">Effective communication is not a thoughtless, effortless process. It takes work, and it takes <em>choosing</em> your communication goals. What are you trying to accomplish with your communication? As another example, a patient hands over a prescription and states angrily, &#8220;That&#8217;s not going to take long, is it? It seems like I always have to wait forever here!&#8221; How you respond depends completely on what you are trying to accomplish with your communication. If you are trying to prove to the patient that she doesn&#8217;t &#8220;always&#8221; have to wait, that communication would be very different from communication acknowledging that the patient is distressed and in a hurry and showing respect for the patient <em>despite</em> her mood or behavior. Showing respect for the patient does not necessarily mean giving her exactly what she wants (her medicine, right now), nor does it mean losing respect for yourself. The point is that what you say has consequences, and responsibilities go with it.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Unrealistic expectations can drive you crazy.</strong> A hallmark of mental health is the extent to which people use data in their environment to make effective decisions and solve problems. People use observations that are repeated over time to make effective decisions. Here&#8217;s an example. Mr. Jones always comes into your pharmacy and complains that your prices are too high. You ask what specific items are too high-priced, but Mr. Jones always says, &#8220;It&#8217;s everything in here!&#8221; Still, he comes in and buys various items each time. What can we conclude from this? Does it seem likely that the next time Mr. Jones comes in he will complain about your high prices? Absolutely. Why, then, is it difficult to accept that this is simply the way he is (remember, life creates suffering) and that he needs to complain to feel important? Why would we expect that he will be different next time and that he won&#8217;t complain? Why, if he does complain again, is he labeled as a difficult <a id="page_31"/>patient? Some patients are difficult for us because uncomfortable feelings come up and we don&#8217;t know what to do&#8212;so we say that the patient is the problem.</p>
<p class="indent">Here&#8217;s another example of unrealistic expectations. I fly a lot&#8212;on an airline that has one of the worst on-time performance records in the industry, according to the <em>Wall Street Journal</em>. So why do people who know this performance record still go to the airport expecting their flight to be on time? My thinking is that the plane probably will be late, and if it&#8217;s on time, we&#8217;ll celebrate. Observing reality (and the airline&#8217;s performance) has taught me not to book the last connecting flight out if I want to get home that day. Making these choices about how to behave is what it means to adjust internal tensions. It is easier to adjust my schedule than to try changing an entire airline, but this does not keep me from making suggestions for improvement.</p>
<p class="indent">Unrealistic expectations occur because we simply do not want to accept that life is unfair and that it <em>does</em> create suffering. We just have to decide what we want to do. We have the power to choose.</p>
<h3 class="h3">SUMMARY</h3>
<p class="noindent">Effective relationships are essential in the provision of pharmaceutical care. We react differently to someone with whom we have a relationship, especially one built on trust and caring. From a mental health point of view, healthy people take responsibility for their responses to feelings and situations. They know they can choose their communication goals and their behaviors.</p>
<p class="indent">In the following chapters, we will explore some skills that are necessary for building trust. We will examine the role of listening and empathy in developing trusting and caring relationships with our patients. We will explore keys to more effective interpersonal relationships.</p>
<div class="box">
<div class="spc">
<p class="bhead"><strong>Questions for Reflection</strong></p>
</div>
<hr/>
<div class="spc1">
<p class="noindentnumber-box">1.&#160;&#160;&#160;What is a therapeutic alliance? What does it have to do with phar maceutical care?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber-box">2.&#160;&#160;&#160;What are feelings? What causes them?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber-box">3.&#160;&#160;&#160;How do expectations affect relationships with patients?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber-box">4.&#160;&#160;&#160;What does mental health have to do with relationships between pharmacists and patients and between pharmacists and other health care providers?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber-box">5.&#160;&#160;&#160;What should be your communication goals for every patient encounter?</p>
</div>
</div>
<h3 class="h3"><a id="page_32"/>REFERENCES</h3>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch2_ref1" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2-ref1">1</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Hepler CD, Strand LM. Opportunities and responsibilities in pharmaceutical care. <em>Am J Pharm Educ</em>. 1989;53(winter suppl):7S&#8211;15S.</p>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch2_ref2" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2-ref2">2</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Foreman SA, Marmar CR. Therapist action that addresses initially poor therapeutic alliances in psychotherapy. <em>Am J Psychiatry</em>. 1985;142:922&#8211;6.</p>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch2_ref3" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2-ref3">3</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Frieswyk SH, Allen JG, Colson DB, et al. Therapeutic alliance: its place as a process and outcome variable in dynamic psychotherapy research. <em>J Consult Clin Psychol</em>. 1986;54:32&#8211;8.</p>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch2_ref4" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2-ref4">4</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Bordin ES. The generalizability of the psychoanalytic concept of the working alliance. <em>Psychother Theory Res Pract</em>. 1979;16:252&#8211;60.</p>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch2_ref5" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2-ref5">5</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Basch MF. Empathic understanding: a review of the concept and some theoretical considerations. <em>J Am Psychoanal Assoc</em>. 1983;31:101&#8211;26.</p>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch2_ref6" href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2-ref6">6</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Goleman D. <em>Emotional Intelligence</em>. New York: Bantam Books; 1995.</p>
</body>
</html>