<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>References</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/article.css" />
</head>
<body class="references">
    <h2>References</h2>
    <ol>
        <li id="ref1">
            Harmon KG, Drezner JA, Gammons M et al. <span class="references__article-title">American Medical Society for Sports Medicine position statement: concussion in sport</span>. Br. J. Sports Med. 47(1), 15–26 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1136/bjsports-2012-091941">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23243113">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref2">
            Borich MR, Cheung KL, Jones P et al. <span class="references__article-title">Concussion: current concepts in diagnosis and management</span>. J. Neurol. Phys. Ther. 37(3), 133–139 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1097/NPT.0b013e31829f7460">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23872682">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref3">
            Sahler CS, Greenwald BD. <span class="references__article-title">Traumatic brain injury in sports: a review</span>. Rehabil. Res. Pract. 2012, 659–652 (2012).
        </li>
        <li id="ref4">
            Benson BW, Meeuwisse W, Rizos J, Kang J, Burke C. <span class="references__article-title">A prospective study of concussions among National Hockey League players during regular season games: the NHL-NHLPA Concussion Program</span>. CMAJ 183(8), 887–888 (2011). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.092190">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21502346">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref5">
            McCrory P, Meeuwisse WH, Aubry M et al. <span class="references__article-title">Consensus statement on concussion in sport: the 4th International Conference on Concussion in Sport held in Zurich, November 2012</span>. Br. J. Sports Med. 47(5), 250–258 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1136/bjsports-2013-092313">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23479479">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref6">
            Heitger MH, Jones RD, Dalrymple-Alford JC, Frampton CM, Ardagh MW, Anderson TJ. <span class="references__article-title">Motor deficits and recovery during the first year following mild closed head injury</span>. Brain Inj. 20, 807–824 (2006). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/02699050600676354">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17060148">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref7">
            Bleiberg J, Cernich AN, Cameron K et al. <span class="references__article-title">Duration of cognitive impairment after sports concussion</span>. Neurosurgery 54(5), 1073–1080 (2004). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1227/01.NEU.0000118820.33396.6A">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15113460">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref8">
            Giza CC, Hovda DA. <span class="references__article-title">The new neurometabloic cascade of concussion</span>. Neurosurgery 75(04), S24–S33 (2015).
        </li>
        <li id="ref9">
            Barkhoudarian G, Hovda DA. <span class="references__article-title">The molecular pathophysiology of concussive brain injury</span>. Clin. J. Sport Med. 30(1), 33–48 (2011). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csm.2010.09.001">Crossref</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref10">
            Prins ML, Hales A, Reger M, Giza CC, Hovda DA. <span class="references__article-title">Repeat traumatic brain injury in the juvenile rat is associated with increased axonal injury and cognitive impairments</span>. Dev. Neurosci. 32, 510–518 (2010). <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20829578">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref11">
            Guskiewicz KM, McCrea M, Marshall SW et al. <span class="references__article-title">Cumulative effects associated with recurrent concussion in collegiate football players: the NCAA concussion study</span>. J. Am. Med. Assoc. 290(19), 2549–2555 (2003). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.290.19.2549">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14625331">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref12">
            Putukian M. <span class="references__article-title">Repeat mild traumatic brain injury: how to adjust return to play guidelines</span>. Curr. Sports Med. Rep. 5, 15–22 (2006). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1097/01.CSMR.0000306514.79430.cd">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16483512">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref13">
            Brown JA, Dalecki M, Hughes C, Macpherson AK, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Cognitive-motor integration deficits in young adult athletes following concussion</span>. BMC Sports Sci. Med. Rehabil. 7, 25 (2015). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1186/s13102-015-0019-4">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26491541">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref14">
            Dalecki M, Albines D, Macpherson A, Sergio L. <span class="references__article-title">Prolonged congnitive-motor impairments in children and adolescents with a history of concussion</span>. Concussion doi:10.2217/cnc-2016-0001 (2016) (Epub ahead of print).
        </li>
        <li id="ref15">
            Wise SP, di Pellegrino G, Boussaoud D. <span class="references__article-title">The premotor cortex and nonstandard sensorimotor mapping</span>. Can. J. Physiol. Pharmacol. 74(4), 469–482 (1996). <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8828893">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref16">
            Gorbet D, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">The beahvioural consequences of dissociating the spatial directions of eye and arm movements</span>. Brain Res. 1284, 77–88 (2009). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainres.2009.05.057">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19497310">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref17">
            Hawkins KM, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Visuomotor impairments in older adults at increased alzheimer’s disease risk</span>. J. Alzheimers Dis. 42, 607–621 (2014). <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24919768">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref18">
            Salek Y, Anderson N, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Mild cognitive impairment is associated with impaired visual-motor planning when visual stimuli and actions are incongruent</span>. Eur. Neurol. 66, 283–293 (2011). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1159/000331049">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22025035">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref19">
            Putukian M, Aubry M, McCrory P. <span class="references__article-title">Return to play after sports concussion in elite and non-elite athletes?</span> Br. J. Sports Med. 43(Suppl. I), i28–i31 (2009). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1136/bjsm.2009.058230">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19433421">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref20">
            Pellman EJ, Viano DC, Casson IR, Arfken C, Feuer H. <span class="references__article-title">Concussion in professional football: players returning to the same game – Part 7</span>. Neurosurgery 56(1), 79–92 (2005). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1227/01.NEU.0000150180.16552.8D">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15617589">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref21">
            Pellman EJ, Lovell MR, Viano DC, Casson IR. <span class="references__article-title">Concussion in professional football: recovery of NFL and high school athletes assessed by computerized neuropsychological testing - Part 12</span>. Neurosurgery 58(2), 263–274 (2006). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1227/01.NEU.0000200272.56192.62">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16462480">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref22">
            Guskiewicz KM, Marshall SW, Bailes J et al. <span class="references__article-title">Association between recurrent concussion and late-life cognitive impairment in retired professional football players</span>. Neurosurgery 57, 719–726 (2005). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1227/01.NEU.0000175725.75780.DD">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16239884">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref23">
            Andersen RA, Zipser D. <span class="references__article-title">The role of the posterior parietal cortex in coordinate transformations for visual-motor integration</span>. Can. J. Physiol. Pharmacol. 66, 488–501 (1988). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1139/y88-078">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3139270">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref24">
            Gorbet DJ, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Don’t watch where you’re going: the neural correlates of decoupling eye and arm movements</span>. Behav. Brain Res. 298, 229–240 (2016). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbr.2015.11.012">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26589804">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref25">
            Hawkins KM, Sayegh P, Yan X, Crawford JD, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Neural activity in superior parietal cortex during rule-based visual-motor transformations</span>. J. Cogn. Neurosci. 25(3), 436–454 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1162/jocn_a_00318">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23092356">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref26">
            Kalaska JF, Crammond DJ. <span class="references__article-title">Cerebral cortical mechanisms of reaching movements</span>. Science 255(5051), 1517–1523 (1992). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1549781">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1549781">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref27">
            Kalaska JF, Scott SH, Cisek P, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Cortical control of reaching movements</span>. Curr. Opin. Neurobiol. 7(6), 849–859 (1997). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/S0959-4388%2897%2980146-8">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9464979">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref28">
            Georgopoulos AP, Massey JT. <span class="references__article-title">Cognitive spatial-motor processes</span>. Exp. Brain Res. 65, 361–370 (1987). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00236309">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3556464">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref29">
            Connolly JD, Goodale MA, Desouza JFX, Menon RS, Menon RS, Vilis T. <span class="references__article-title">A comparison of frontoparietal fMRI activation during anti-saccades and anti-pointing</span>. Am. Physiol. Soc. 5, 1645–1655 (2000).
        </li>
        <li id="ref30">
            Granek JA, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Evidence for distinct brain networks in the control of rule-based motor behavior</span>. J. Neurophysiol. 114, 1298–1309 (2015). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.00233.2014">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26133796">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref31">
            Sinopoli KJ, Chen J-K, Wells G et al. <span class="references__article-title">Imaging “brain strain” in youth athletes with mild traumatic brain injury during dual-task performance</span>. J. Neurotrauma 31(22), 1843–1859 (2014). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1089/neu.2014.3326">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24902051">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref32">
            Locklin J, Bunn L, Roy E, Danckert J. <span class="references__article-title">Measuring deficits in visually guided action post-concussion</span>. Sports Med. 40(3), 183–187 (2010). <a href="https://doi.org/10.2165/11319440-000000000-00000">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20199118">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref33">
            Hugenholtz H, Stuss D, Stethem L, Richard M. <span class="references__article-title">How long does it take to recover from a mild concussion?</span> Neurosurgery 22(5), 853–858 (1988). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1227/00006123-198805000-00008">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3380274">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref34">
            Zhang K, Johnson B, Pennell D, Ray W, Sebastianelli W, Slobounov S. <span class="references__article-title">Are functional deficits in concussed individuals consistent with white matter structural alterations: combined fMRI &amp; DTI study</span>. Exp. Brain Res. 204(1), 57–70 (2010). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00221-010-2294-3">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20496060">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref35">
            Slobounov S, Gay M, Johnson B, Zhang K. <span class="references__article-title">Concussion in athletics: ongoing clinical and brain imaging research controversies</span>. Brain Imaging Behav. 6(2), 224–243 (2012). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s11682-012-9167-2">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22669496">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref36">
            Tremblay S, Henry LC, Bedetti C et al. <span class="references__article-title">Diffuse white matter tract abnormalities in normal ageing retired athletes with a history of sports-related concussions</span>. Brain J. Neurol. 137(Pt 11), 2997–3011 (2014). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/brain/awu236">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25186429">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref37">
            Hammeke TA, Mccrea M, Coats SM et al. <span class="references__article-title">Acute and subacute changes in neural activation during the recovery from sport-related concussion</span>. J. Int. Neuropsychol. Soc. 19, 863–872 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1017/S1355617713000702">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23829951">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref38">
            Esopenko C, Kumar P, Alain C et al. <span class="references__article-title">Neuroimaging during a working memory task in remote traumatic brain injury: evidence from NHL alumni</span>. Presented at: 20th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Society. San Francisco, CA, USA, 13–16 April <span class="references__year">2013</span>.
        </li>
        <li id="ref39">
            Chamard E, Lassonde M, Henry L et al. <span class="references__article-title">Neurometabolic and microstructural alterations following a sports-related concussion in female athletes</span>. Brain Inj. 27(9), 1038–1046 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.3109/02699052.2013.794968">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23834633">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref40">
            Virji-babul N, Borich MR, Makan N et al. <span class="references__article-title">Diffusion tensor imaging of sports-related concussion in adolescents</span>. Pediatr. Neurol. 48, 24–29 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2012.09.005">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23290016">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref41">
            Hawkins KM, Goyal AI, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Diffusion tensor imaging correlates of cognitive-motor decline in normal aging and increased alzheimer’s disease risk</span>. J. Alzheimers Dis. 44, 867–878 (2015). <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25374102">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref42">
            Sayegh PF, Hawkins KM, Hoffman KL, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Differences in spectral profiles between rostral and caudal premotor cortex when hand-eye actions are decoupled</span>. J. Neurophysiol. 110(4), 952–963 (2013). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.00764.2012">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23699054">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref43">
            Sayegh PF, Hawkins KM, Neagu B, Crawford JD, Hoffman KL, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Decoupling the actions of the eyes from the hand alters beta and gamma synchrony within SPL</span>. J. Neurophysiol. 111, 2210–2221 (2014). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.00793.2013">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24598517">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref44">
            Gail A, Klaes C, Westendorff S. <span class="references__article-title">Implementation of spatial transformation rules for goal-directed reaching via gain modulation in monkey parietal and premotor cortex</span>. J. Neurosci. 29, 9490–9499 (2009). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1095-09.2009">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19641112">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref45">
            Singman EL. <span class="references__article-title">Automating the assessment of visual dysfunction after traumatic brain injury. Medical Instrumentation</span> (2013). <a class="references__uri" href="http://www.hoajonline.com/journals/pdf/2052-6962-1-3.pdf">www.hoajonline.com/journals/pdf/2052-6962-1-3.pdf</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref46">
            Nakata H, Yoshie M, Miura A, Kudo K. <span class="references__article-title">Characteristics of the athletes’ brain: evidence from neurophysiology and neuroimaging</span>. Brain Res. Rev. 62(2), 197–211 (2009). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresrev.2009.11.006">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19944119">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref47">
            Yarrow K, Brown P, Krakauer JW. <span class="references__article-title">Inside the brain of an elite athlete: the neural processes that support high achievement in sports</span>. Nat. Publ. Gr. 10(8), 585–596 (2009).
        </li>
        <li id="ref48">
            Fitts P. <span class="references__article-title">Perceptual-motor skill learning</span>. In: Categories of Human Learning. <span class="references__editors">Melton AW</span> (Ed). Academic Press Inc., New York, USA, 243–285 (1964). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-1-4832-3145-7.50016-9">Crossref</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref49">
            Granek JA, Gorbet DJ, Sergio LE. <span class="references__article-title">Extensive video-game experience alters cortical networks for complex visuomotor transformations</span>. Cortex 46(9), 1165–1177 (2010). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2009.10.009">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20060111">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref50">
            Broshek DK, Kaushik T, Freeman JR, Erlanger D, Webbe F, Barth JT. <span class="references__article-title">Sex differences in outcome following sports-related concussion</span>. J. Neurosurg. 102, 856–863 (2005). <a href="https://doi.org/10.3171/jns.2005.102.5.0856">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15926710">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref51">
            Covassin T, Elbin R. <span class="references__article-title">The female athlete: the role of gender in the assessment and management of concussion</span>. Clin. Sport Med. 30, 125–131 (2011). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csm.2010.08.001">Crossref</a>, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21074087">Medline</a>
        </li>
        <li id="ref52">
            Covassin T, Swanik CB, Sachs ML. <span class="references__article-title">Sex differences and the incidence of concussions among collegiate athletes</span>. J. Athl. Train. 38(3), 238–244 (2003). <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14608434">Medline</a>
        </li>
    </ol>
</body>
</html>