<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Glossary of development terms</title>
  <link href="../Styles/epub.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
  <link href="../Styles/keytable.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
  <link href="../Styles/mediaqueries.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body epub:type="backmatter">
  <section class="section-annex" epub:type="appendix glossary">
	<header>
    <h1 class="annex-heading"><a id="IDa9f6c1cb-3889-4bd4-857b-e7f4b54449b4"></a>Glossary of development terms</h1>
	</header>

    <p>(Cross-references are given in CAPITALS)</p>

    <div id="aid">
	<p><dfn class="bold">AID:</dfn> The words “aid” and “assistance” in this publication refer only to flows which qualify as <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE</a> (ODA).</p>
	</div>

    <div id="aid_effectiveness">
	<p><dfn class="bold">AID EFFECTIVENESS:</dfn> The efforts of the development community to improve the delivery of <a class="internal-link" href="#aid">AID</a> to maximise its impact on development.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="amortisation">
	<p><dfn class="bold">AMORTISATION:</dfn> Repayments of principal on a <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a>. Does not include interest payments.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="associated_financing">
	<p><dfn class="bold">ASSOCIATED FINANCING:</dfn> The combination of <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE</a>, whether <a class="internal-link" href="#grants">GRANTS</a> or <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a>, with other official or private funds to form finance packages. Associated financing packages are subject to the same criteria of concessionality, developmental relevance and recipient country eligibility as <a class="internal-link" href="#tied_aid">TIED AID</a> credits.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="bilateral">
	<p><dfn class="bold">BILATERAL:</dfn> See <a class="internal-link" href="#total_receipts">TOTAL RECEIPTS</a>.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="cash_transfer_programmes">
	<p><dfn class="bold">CASH TRANSFER PROGRAMMES:</dfn> The government transfers welfare money to people on condition that they meet certain criteria, which may include enrolling children into public schools, getting regular medical check-ups, receiving vaccinations, or the like. The aim is to help the current generation tackle poverty, while also breaking the cycle of poverty for the next generation through the development of human capital.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="chronic_poverty">
	<p><dfn class="bold">CHRONIC POVERTY:</dfn> Where people are trapped in extreme poverty which persists for many years and even across generations.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="claim">
	<p><dfn class="bold">CLAIM:</dfn> The entitlement of a creditor to repayment of a <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a>; by extension, the loan itself or the outstanding amount thereof.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="commitment">
	<p><dfn class="bold">COMMITMENT:</dfn> A&#160;firm obligation, expressed in writing and backed by the necessary funds, undertaken by an official donor to provide specified assistance to a recipient country or a multilateral organisation. Bilateral commitments are recorded in the full amount of expected transfer, irrespective of the time required for the completion of <a class="internal-link" href="#disbursement">DISBURSEMENTS</a>. Commitments to multilateral organisations are reported as the sum of: <i>i)</i>&#160;any disbursements in the year in question which have not previously been notified as commitments; and <i>ii)</i>&#160;expected disbursements in the following year.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="concessionality_level">
	<p><dfn class="bold">CONCESSIONALITY LEVEL:</dfn> A&#160;measure of the “softness” of a credit reflecting the benefit to the borrower compared to a <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a> at market rate (see <a class="internal-link" href="#grant_element">GRANT ELEMENT</a>). Technically, it is calculated as the difference between the nominal value of a <a class="internal-link" href="#tied_aid">TIED AID</a> credit and the present value of the debt service as of the date of <a class="internal-link" href="#disbursement">DISBURSEMENT</a>, calculated at a discount rate applicable to the currency of the transaction and expressed as a percentage of the nominal value.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="country_programmable_aid" data-altdfn="cpa">
	<p><dfn class="bold">COUNTRY PROGRAMMABLE AID (CPA):</dfn> Tracks the portion of aid on which recipient countries have, or could have, a significant say and for which donors should be accountable for delivering “as programmed”. CPA is much closer than <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">ODA</a> to capturing the flows of aid that goes to the partner country, and has been proven in several studies to be a good proxy of aid recorded at country level. CPA reflects the amount of aid that is subjected to multi-year planning at country/regional level and is defined through exclusions, by subtracting from total gross bilateral ODA that:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>is unpredictable by nature (humanitarian aid and debt relief);</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>entails no cross-border flows (administrative costs, imputed student costs, promotion of development awareness, and research and refugees in donor countries;</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>does not form part of co-operation agreements between governments (food aid and aid from local governments, core funding to non-governmental organisations, aid through secondary agencies, and aid which is not allocable by country);</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>is not country programmable by the donor (core funding of non-governmental organisations).</p>
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>CPA does not net out loan repayments, as these are not usually factored into aid allocation decisions.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="development_assistance_committee" data-altdfn="dac">
	<p><dfn class="bold">DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE COMMITTEE (DAC):</dfn> The committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) which deals with development co-operation matters. A&#160;description of its aims and a list of its members are available at <span class="hyperlink-webpage"><a href="http://www.oecd.org/dac">www.oecd.org/dac</a></span>.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="dac_list_of_oda_recipients">
<p><dfn class="bold">DAC LIST OF ODA RECIPIENTS:</dfn> For statistical purposes, the OECD Development Assistance Committee (<a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a>) uses a list of official development assistance (<a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">ODA</a>) recipients which it revises every three years (see Table&#160;B.1). The “Notes on definitions and measurement” give details of revisions in recent years. As of 1&#160;January 2011, the list is presented in the following categories (the word “countries” includes territories):</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <div id="ldcs">
<p><dfn class="bold">LDCs:</dfn> Least developed countries, a group established by the United&#160;Nations (UN). To be classified as LDCs, countries must fall below thresholds established for income, economic diversification and social development. The DAC List of <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">ODA</a> Recipients is updated immediately to reflect any change in the LDCs group.</p>
</div>
      </li>

      <li>
        <div id="other_lics">
<p><dfn class="bold">Other LICs:</dfn> Other low-income countries; includes all non-LDCs with per&#160;capita gross national income (GNI) of USD&#160;1&#160;005 or less in&#160;2010 (World&#160;Bank Atlas basis).</p>
      </div></li>

      <li>
        <div id="lmics">
        <p><dfn class="bold">LMICs:</dfn> Lower middle-income countries, i.e.&#160;those with GNI per&#160;capita (Atlas basis) between USD&#160;1&#160;006 and USD&#160;3&#160;975 in&#160;2010. LDCs which are also LMICs are only shown as LDCs, not as LMICs.</p>
      </div></li>

      <li>
        <div id="umics">
        <p><dfn class="bold">UMICs:</dfn> Upper middle-income countries, i.e.&#160;those with GNI per&#160;capita (Atlas basis) between USD&#160;3&#160;976 and USD&#160;12&#160;275 in&#160;2010.</p>

        <p>When a country is added to or removed from the LDCs group, totals for the income groups affected are adjusted retroactively to maximise comparability over time with reference to the current list.</p>
      </div></li>
    </ul>
</div>

    <div id="debt_reorganisation" data-altdfn="restructuring">
	<p><dfn class="bold">DEBT REORGANISATION (also: RESTRUCTURING):</dfn> Any action officially agreed between creditor and debtor that alters the terms previously established for repayment. This may include forgiveness (extinction of the <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a>) or rescheduling, which can be implemented either by revising the repayment schedule or extending a new refinancing loan. See also the “Notes on definitions and measurement” in the Technical notes.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="disbursement">
	<p><dfn class="bold">DISBURSEMENT:</dfn> The release of funds to –&#160;or the purchase of goods or services for&#160;– a&#160;recipient; by extension, the amount thus spent. Disbursements record the actual international transfer of financial resources, or of goods or services valued at the cost to the donor. In the case of activities carried out in donor countries, such as training, administration or public awareness programmes, disbursement is taken to have occurred when the funds have been transferred to the service provider or the recipient. They may be recorded gross (the total amount disbursed over a given accounting period) or net (the gross amount less any repayments of <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a> principal or recoveries on <a class="internal-link" href="#grants">GRANTS</a> received during the same period).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="export_credits">
	<p><dfn class="bold">EXPORT CREDITS:</dfn> <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a> for the purpose of trade and which are not represented by a negotiable instrument. They may be extended by the official or the private sector. If extended by the private sector, they may be supported by official guarantees.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="extreme_poverty">
	<p><dfn class="bold">EXTREME POVERTY:</dfn> (also referred to as absolute poverty), is defined by the United&#160;Nations as “[…]&#160;severe deprivation of basic human needs, including food, safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, health, shelter, education and information. It depends not only on income but also on access to services” (UN&#160;declaration at World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen in&#160;1995). Since the Millennium Development Goals were agreed upon in&#160;2001, it has been measured as an income of USD&#160;1.25/day (equivalent to USD&#160;1.00/day in 1996&#160;USD prices).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="fragile_states">
	<p><dfn class="bold">FRAGILE STATES:</dfn> Fragile countries or regions can be defined as having a weak capacity to carry out basic governance functions and/or a low ability to develop constructive relations between state and society, as well as between different groups in society.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="gini_coefficient">
	<p><dfn class="bold">GINI COEFFICIENT:</dfn> Also known as the Gini index or Gini ratio; is commonly used as a measure of inequality of <span class="hyperlink-webpage"><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_inequality_metrics">income</a></span> or <span class="hyperlink-webpage"><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wealth_condensation">wealth</a></span>, where a coefficient of one means maximum inequality, and zero means total equality.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="global_public_goods">
	<p><dfn class="bold">GLOBAL PUBLIC GOODS:</dfn> Goods or services that are available to everybody. A public good becomes a global public good if it is quasi-universal in terms of countries (covering more than one group of countries), people (accruing to several, preferably all, population groups), and generations (extending to both current and future generations, or at least meeting the needs of the current generations without foreclosing development options for future generations). Natural GPGs include oceans/rivers, sunlight/moonlight and the atmosphere; the sustainable management of natural GPGs (e.g. climate stability) is also a GPG. Food security, peace, economic stability, protection from communicable diseases, inclusive healthcare, international communication and transport networks, access to information and knowledge are other GPGs. Most GPGs call for cross-border cooperation among different actors and as a consequence, their provision suffers from obstacles to collective action.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="grace_period">
	<p><dfn class="bold">GRACE PERIOD:</dfn> See <a class="internal-link" href="#grant_element">GRANT ELEMENT</a>.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="grants">
	<p><dfn class="bold">GRANTS:</dfn> Transfers made in cash, goods or services for which no repayment is required.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="grant_element">
	<p><dfn class="bold">GRANT ELEMENT:</dfn> Reflects the financial terms of a <a class="internal-link" href="#commitment">COMMITMENT</a>: Interest rate, <a class="internal-link" href="#maturity">MATURITY</a> and <a class="internal-link" href="#grace_period">GRACE PERIOD</a> (interval to first repayment of capital). It measures the concessionality of a <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a>, expressed as the percentage by which the present value of the expected stream of repayments falls short of the repayments that would have been generated at a given reference rate of interest. The reference rate is 10% in <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> statistics. This rate was selected as a proxy for the marginal efficiency of domestic investment, i.e.&#160;as an indication of the opportunity cost to the donor of making the funds available. Thus, the grant element is nil for a loan carrying an interest rate of 10%; it is 100% for a <a class="internal-link" href="#grants">GRANT</a>; and it lies between these two limits for a loan at less than 10% interest. If the face value of a loan is multiplied by its grant element, the result is referred to as the grant equivalent of that loan (see <a class="internal-link" href="#concessionality_level">CONCESSIONALITY LEVEL</a>). <i>Note:</i> In classifying receipts, the grant element concept is not applied to the operations of the multilateral development banks. Instead, these are classified as concessional if they include a subsidy (“soft window” operations) and non-concessional if they are unsubsidised (“hard window” operations).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="grant-like_flow">
	<p><dfn class="bold">GRANT-LIKE FLOW:</dfn> A&#160;transaction in which the donor country retains formal title to repayment but has expressed its intention in the <a class="internal-link" href="#commitment">COMMITMENT</a> to hold the proceeds of repayment in the borrowing country for the benefit of that country.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="green_growth">
	<p><dfn class="bold">GREEN GROWTH:</dfn> Green growth means fostering economic growth and development, while ensuring that natural assets continue to provide the resources and environmental services on which our well-being –&#160;and that of future generations&#160;– relies. It focuses on the synergies and tradeoffs between the environmental and economic pillars of sustainable development.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="human_capital">
	<p><dfn class="bold">HUMAN CAPITAL:</dfn> The stock of competencies, knowledge, social and personality attributes, including creativity, embodied in the ability to perform labour so as to produce economic value. It is an aggregate economic view of the human being acting within economies, which is an attempt to capture the social, biological, cultural and psychological complexity as they interact in explicit and/or economic transactions. Many theories explicitly connect investment in human capital development to education, and the role of human capital in economic development, productivity growth, and innovation has frequently been cited as a justification for government subsidies for education and job skills training.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="imputed_multilateral_flows">
	<p><dfn class="bold">IMPUTED MULTILATERAL FLOWS:</dfn> Geographical distribution of donors’ core contributions to multilateral agencies, based on the geographical breakdown of multilateral agencies’ disbursements for the year of reference.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="inclusive_economic_development_and_growth">
	<p><dfn class="bold">INCLUSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH:</dfn> Development that benefits all members of society, including the poor.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="loans">
	<p><dfn class="bold">LOANS:</dfn> Transfers for which repayment is required. Only loans with <a class="internal-link" href="#maturity">MATURITIES</a> of over one&#160;year are included in <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> statistics. The data record actual flows throughout the lifetime of the loans, not the grant equivalent of the loans (see <a class="internal-link" href="#grant_element">GRANT ELEMENT</a>). Data on net loan flows include deductions for repayments of principal (but not payment of interest) on earlier loans. This means that when a loan has been fully repaid, its effect on total <a class="internal-link" href="#net_flow">NET FLOWS</a> over the life of the loan is zero.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="long-term">
	<p><dfn class="bold">LONG-TERM:</dfn> Describes <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a> with an original or extended <a class="internal-link" href="#maturity">MATURITY</a> of more than one year (see <a class="internal-link" href="#short-term">SHORT-TERM</a>).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="maturity">
	<p><dfn class="bold">MATURITY:</dfn> The date at which the final repayment of a <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a> is due; by extension, the duration of the loan.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="multidimensional_poverty">
	<p><dfn class="bold">MULTIDIMENSIONAL POVERTY:</dfn> The recognition that poverty has many dimensions. It is not just a question of money, but also of a complex range of deprivations in areas such as work, health, nutrition, education, services, housing and assets, among others.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="multidimensional_poverty_index" data-altdfn="mpi">
	<p><dfn class="bold">MULTIDIMENSIONAL POVERTY INDEX OR MPI:</dfn> An internationally comparable measure of multidimensional poverty in developing countries based on ten indicators of education, health and standards of living. A&#160;person is considered “multidimensionally poor” if they are deprived in one-third of the weighted indicators. The index is a number between&#160;0 and&#160;1 that reflects the level of acute poverty. A&#160;bigger number shows higher poverty (see <span class="xref"><a href="../Text/010.xhtml#ID061e379d-cf1f-4882-b482-540773de5a12">Chapter&#160;3</a></span>).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="multilateral_agencies">
	<p><dfn class="bold">MULTILATERAL AGENCIES:</dfn> In <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> statistics, those international institutions with governmental membership that conduct all or a significant part of their activities in favour of development and aid recipient countries. They include multilateral development banks (e.g.&#160;the World&#160;Bank, regional development banks), United&#160;Nations agencies and regional groupings (e.g.&#160;certain European&#160;Union and Arab agencies). A&#160;contribution by a <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> member to such an agency is deemed to be multilateral if it is pooled with other contributions and disbursed at the discretion of the agency. Unless otherwise indicated, capital subscriptions to multilateral development banks are presented on a deposit basis, i.e.&#160;in the amount and as of the date of lodgement of the relevant letter of credit or other negotiable instrument. Limited data are available on an encashment basis, i.e.&#160;at the date and in the amount of each drawing made by the agency on letters or other instruments.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="multilateral">
	<p><dfn class="bold">MULTILATERAL:</dfn> See <a class="internal-link" href="#total_receipts">TOTAL RECEIPTS</a>.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="net_flow">
	<p><dfn class="bold">NET FLOW:</dfn> The total amount disbursed over a given accounting period, less repayments of <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOAN</a> principal during the same period, no account being taken of interest.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="net_transfer">
	<p><dfn class="bold">NET TRANSFER:</dfn> In <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> statistics, <a class="internal-link" href="#net_flow">NET FLOW</a> <em>minus</em> payments of interest.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="official_development_assistance" data-altdfn="oda">
	<p><dfn class="bold">OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE (ODA):</dfn> <a class="internal-link" href="#grants">GRANTS</a> or <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a> to countries and territories on the <a class="internal-link" href="#dac_list_of_oda_recipients">DAC LIST OF ODA RECIPIENTS</a> and <a class="internal-link" href="#multilateral_agencies">MULTILATERAL AGENCIES</a> that are undertaken by the official sector at concessional terms (i.e.&#160;with a <a class="internal-link" href="#grant_element">GRANT ELEMENT</a> of at least 25%) and that have the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as their main objective. In addition to financial flows, <a class="internal-link" href="#technical_co-operation">TECHNICAL CO-OPERATION</a> is included in aid. Grants, loans and credits for military purposes are excluded. For treatment of the forgiveness of loans originally extended for military purposes, see “Notes on definitions and measurement” in the Technical notes.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="official_development_finance" data-altdfn="odf">
	<p><dfn class="bold">OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE (ODF):</dfn> Used in measuring the inflow of resources to recipient countries and includes: <i>i)&#160;</i>bilateral <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">ODA</a>; <i>ii)</i>&#160;<a class="internal-link" href="#grants">GRANTS</a>, and concessional and non- concessional development lending by <a class="internal-link" href="#multilateral_agencies">MULTILATERAL AGENCIES</a>; and <i>iii)&#160;</i>those <a class="internal-link" href="#other_official_flows">OTHER OFFICIAL FLOWS</a> which are considered developmental (including refinancing <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a>) but which have too low a <a class="internal-link" href="#grant_element">GRANT ELEMENT</a> to qualify as <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">ODA</a>.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="offshore_banking_centres">
	<p><dfn class="bold">OFFSHORE BANKING CENTRES:</dfn> Countries or territories whose financial institutions deal primarily with non-residents.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="other_official_flows" data-altdfn="oof">
	<p><dfn class="bold">OTHER OFFICIAL FLOWS (OOF):</dfn> Transactions by the official sector with countries on the <a class="internal-link" href="#dac_list_of_oda_recipients">DAC LIST OF ODA RECIPIENTS</a> which do not meet the conditions for eligibility as <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE</a>, either because they are not primarily aimed at development or because they have a <a class="internal-link" href="#grant_element">GRANT ELEMENT</a> of less than 25%.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="partially_untied_aid">
	<p><dfn class="bold">PARTIALLY UNTIED AID:</dfn> <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_assistance">ODA</a> for which the associated goods and services must be procured in the donor country or among a restricted group of other countries that must, however, include substantially all recipient countries. Partially untied aid is subject to the same disciplines as <a class="internal-link" href="#tied_aid">TIED AID</a> credits and <a class="internal-link" href="#associated_financing">ASSOCIATED FINANCING</a>.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="partner_country">
	<p><dfn class="bold">PARTNER COUNTRY:</dfn> Countries who partner in development co-operation (and beyond). In a more narrow sense, the term partner countries refers to countries that receive development assistance provided by other countries to support their own development.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="peer_reviews">
	<p><dfn class="bold">PEER REVIEWS:</dfn> Each <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> member country is reviewed by peers roughly every four years with two main aims: <i>i)</i>&#160;to help the country understand where it could improve its development strategy and structures so that it can increase the effectiveness of its investment; <i>ii)</i>&#160;to identify and share good practice in development policy and strategy. The reviews are led by examiners from two <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> member countries.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="post-2015">
	<p><dfn class="bold">POST-2015:</dfn> The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will expire in&#160;2015. The MDGs aimed to halve income poverty and hunger and to reduce other forms of poverty and deprivation and improve human capabilities, including as regards health, education and access to food and water. The global community is currently discussing the successor framework for the MDGs, including additional objectives, targets and indicators that build on the MDG framework.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="private_flows">
<p><dfn class="bold">PRIVATE FLOWS:</dfn> Consist of flows at market terms financed out of private sector resources (i.e.&#160;changes in holdings of private <a class="internal-link" href="#long-term">LONG-TERM</a> assets held by residents of the reporting country) and private grants (i.e.&#160;grants by non-governmental organisations and other private bodies, net of subsidies received from the official sector). In presentations focusing on the receipts of recipient countries, flows at market terms are shown as follows:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <div id="direct_investment">
        <p><dfn class="bold">Direct investment:</dfn> Investment made to acquire or add to a lasting interest in an enterprise in a country on the <a class="internal-link" href="#dac_list_of_oda_recipients">DAC LIST OF ODA RECIPIENTS</a>. “Lasting interest” implies a long-term relationship where the direct investor has a significant influence on the management of the enterprise, reflected by ownership of at least 10% of the shares, or equivalent voting power or other means of control. In practice it is recorded as the change in the net worth of a subsidiary in a recipient country to the parent company, as shown in the books of the latter.</p>
      </div></li>

      <li>
        <div id="international_bank_lending">
        <p><dfn class="bold">International bank lending:</dfn> Net lending to countries on the DAC List of ODA Recipients by banks in OECD countries. <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a> from central monetary authorities are excluded. Guaranteed bank loans and bonds are included under other private (see below) or bond lending (see below).</p>
      </div></li>

      <li>
        <div id="bond_lending">
        <p><dfn class="bold">Bond lending:</dfn> Net completed international bonds issued by countries on the DAC List of ODA Recipients.</p>
      </div></li>

      <li>
        <div id="other_private">
        <p><dfn class="bold">Other private:</dfn> Mainly reported holdings of equities issued by firms in aid recipient countries.</p>
      </div></li>
    </ul>

    <p>In data presentations that focus on the outflow of funds from donors, private flows other than direct investment are restricted to credits with a <a class="internal-link" href="#maturity">MATURITY</a> of more than one year and are usually divided into:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <div id="private_export_credits">
        <p><dfn class="bold">Private export credits:</dfn> See <a class="internal-link" href="#export_credits">EXPORT CREDITS</a>.</p>
      </div></li>

      <li>
        <div id="securities_of_multilateral_agencies">
        <p><dfn class="bold">Securities of multilateral agencies:</dfn> This covers the transactions of the private, non-bank and bank sector in bonds, debentures, etc. issued by <a class="internal-link" href="#multilateral_agencies">MULTILATERAL AGENCIES</a>.</p>
      </div></li>
    </ul>
</div>

    <div id="purchasing_power_parity" data-altdfn="ppp">
	<p><dfn class="bold">PURCHASING POWER PARITY OR PPP:</dfn> A&#160;technique used to determine the relative <span class="hyperlink-webpage"><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value_%28economics%29">value</a></span> of <span class="hyperlink-webpage"><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currency">currencies</a></span>. It asks how much money would be needed to purchase the same goods and services in two countries, and uses that to calculate an implicit foreign exchange rate. Using that PPP rate, an amount of money thus has the same purchasing power in different countries.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="rights-based_approaches">
	<p><dfn class="bold">RIGHTS-BASED APPROACHES:</dfn> An&#160; approach promoted by many development agencies and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to achieve a positive transformation of power relations among the various development actors.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="short-term">
	<p><dfn class="bold">SHORT-TERM:</dfn> Describes <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a> with a <a class="internal-link" href="#maturity">MATURITY</a> of one year or less (see <a class="internal-link" href="#long-term">LONG-TERM</a>).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="social_protection">
	<p><dfn class="bold">SOCIAL PROTECTION:</dfn> Policies and programmes that aim to reduce poverty and make people less vulnerable to unemployment, social exclusion, sickness, disability and old age by helping them to manage these deficits and address relevant risks and shocks. Policies include cash transfers and health insurance.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="social_transfer">
	<p><dfn class="bold">SOCIAL TRANSFER:</dfn> A&#160;transfer of income or services from one group in a society to another (e.g.&#160;from the active to the old, the healthy to the sick, or the affluent to the poor).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="south-south_co-operation">
	<p><dfn class="bold">SOUTH-SOUTH CO-OPERATION:</dfn> A&#160;term historically used by policy makers and academics to describe the exchange of resources, technology, and knowledge between developing countries, also known as countries of the global South.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="technical_co-operation">
	<p><dfn class="bold">TECHNICAL CO-OPERATION:</dfn> Includes both: <i>i)</i>&#160;<a class="internal-link" href="#grants">GRANTS</a> to nationals of aid recipient countries receiving education or training at home or abroad; and <i>ii)</i>&#160;payments to consultants, advisers and similar personnel, as well as teachers and administrators serving in recipient countries (including the cost of associated equipment). Assistance of this kind provided specifically to facilitate the implementation of a capital project is included indistinguishably among bilateral project and programme expenditures, and is omitted from technical co-operation in statistics of aggregate flows.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="tied_aid">
	<p><dfn class="bold">TIED AID:</dfn> Official <a class="internal-link" href="#grants">GRANTS</a> or <a class="internal-link" href="#loans">LOANS</a> where procurement of the goods or services is limited to the donor country or to a group of countries, which does not include substantially all aid recipient countries. Tied aid loans, credits and <a class="internal-link" href="#associated_financing">ASSOCIATED FINANCING</a> packages are subject to certain disciplines concerning their <a class="internal-link" href="#concessionality_level">CONCESSIONALITY LEVELS</a>, the countries to which they may be directed and their developmental relevance for the purpose of: avoiding the use of aid funds on projects that would be commercially viable with market finance and ensuring that recipient countries receive good value.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="total_receipts">
	<p><dfn class="bold">TOTAL RECEIPTS:</dfn> The inflow of resources to aid recipient countries includes, in addition to <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_finance">ODF</a>, official and private <a class="internal-link" href="#export_credits">EXPORT CREDITS</a> and <a class="internal-link" href="#long-term">LONG-TERM</a> private transactions (see <a class="internal-link" href="#private_flows">PRIVATE FLOWS</a>). Total receipts are measured net of <a class="internal-link" href="#amortisation">AMORTISATION</a> payments and repatriation of capital by private investors. Bilateral flows are provided directly by a donor country to an aid recipient country. Multilateral flows are channelled through <a class="internal-link" href="#multilateral_agencies">MULTILATERAL AGENCIES</a>. In tables showing total receipts of recipient countries, the outflows of multilateral agencies to those countries are shown, not the contributions which the agencies received from donors.</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="undisbursed">
	<p><dfn class="bold">UNDISBURSED:</dfn> Describes amounts committed but not yet spent (see <a class="internal-link" href="#commitment">COMMITMENT</a>, <a class="internal-link" href="#disbursement">DISBURSEMENT</a>).</p>
	</div>
    
<div id="untied_aid">
	<p><dfn class="bold">UNTIED AID:</dfn> <a class="internal-link" href="#official_development_finance">ODA</a> for which the associated goods and services may be fully and freely procured in substantially all countries.</p>
	</div>

<div id="volume">
	<p><dfn class="bold">VOLUME (real terms):</dfn> The flow data of <a class="internal-link" href="#development_assistance_committee">DAC</a> statistics are expressed in United&#160;States dollars (USD). To give a truer idea of the volume of flows over time, some data are presented in constant prices and exchange rates, with a reference year specified. This means that adjustment has been made to cover both inflation in the donor’s currency between the year in question and the reference year, and changes in the exchange rate between that currency and the United&#160;States dollar over the same period. A&#160;table of combined conversion factors (deflators) is provided in the <span class="xref"><a href="../Text/058.xhtml#IDa3d6fa24-2cf1-4576-b928-f29771ead480">Annex&#160;A</a></span> which allows any DAC figure in current&#160;USD to be converted to dollars of the reference year (“constant prices”).</p>
</div>
  </section>
</body>
</html>