<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Panpsychism, Mechanism, and Science in Nineteenth-Century Germany</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/mit.css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<header>
<h1>5&#x2003;<span class="chapterTitle"><a id="d2e69"/>Panpsychism, Mechanism, and Science in Nineteenth-Century Germany</span></h1></header>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Germany remained at the center of evolving views on panpsychism throughout the nineteenth century, even as mechanistic philosophy became increasingly dominant. Paradoxically, new developments in science, physics, and mathematics allowed both mechanists and panpsychists to strengthen their cases. Among the major philosophers advocating or sympathizing with panpsychist views were Schopenhauer, Fechner, Lotze, Hartmann, Mach, Haeckel, and (controversially) Nietzsche. By the end of the century, Friedrich Paulson could compile the first substantial overview of panpsychist philosophy, one that acknowledged the many important German contributions.</p>
<section>
<h2><a id="S1"/>5.1&#x2003;<a id="d2e94"/>Schopenhauer</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The philosophical system of Arthur Schopenhauer (1788&#x2013;1860) is conveniently summarized in the title of his most famous work, <i>Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung</i> (The World as Will and Idea).<a id="FN1a"/><a href="#FN1"><sup>1</sup></a> Reality is comprehended in two distinct but connected ways. &#x201C;World as idea&#x201D; is essentially equivalent to classical idealism, in which things are collections of sensory images. &#x201C;World as will,&#x201D; however, is something entirely new; it completely and radically rewrites our metaphysical picture in panpsychist terms.</p>
<p>To elaborate: When we examine the world in a na&#x00EF;ve or prima facie sense, what we perceive, fundamentally, is a patchwork of sensory impressions: colors, shapes, sounds, scents, and textures. The mind, attempting to make sense of the world, immediately bundles these sensory impressions together into what we identify as individual objects. An apple, for example, is roundish, of a certain size, has a reddish color, smells and tastes a certain way. It is precisely this unique bundle of impressions that allows us to call a certain thing an apple. And so it is with every object that we perceive.</p>
<p>From the time of Bishop Berkeley, sensory impressions had been thought of as ideas, and &#x201C;things&#x201D; as self-evidently collections of ideas. He contemplated a further question: What are things, apart from the ideas? His answer was Nothing; things are only ideas, and they exist only in a perceiving mind or soul. Matter, or material substance, literally doesn&#x2019;t exist. This outlook, which came to be known as idealism, has traditionally been attributed to Berkeley and his work of the early 1700s.</p>
<p>Schopenhauer accepted the notion that things were bundles of ideas, but he emphatically rejected the thought that they were nothing more. If Berkeley were right, he said, the entire world would be intrinsically empty&#x2014;a kind of phantom or dream. There would be no substance to reality. There had to be an inner nature to things, something substantial, in order to &#x201C;objectify&#x201D; or reify the world.</p>
<p>Various attempts had been made throughout history to determine this inner nature, the thing-in-itself of material objects. Descartes had famously determined that it was an &#x201C;extended, flexible, changeable&#x201D; substance of an otherwise indeterminate nature.<a id="FN2a"/><a href="#FN2"><sup>2</sup></a> For Kant, it was some inherently unknowable entity. To Schopenhauer, both answers were inadequate. Descartes, Kant, and Berkeley had failed to discern the truth because they neglected to consider the one object in the universe that they knew better than anything else: one&#x2019;s own body. Had they not neglected to consider it, they would have realized that the human body, most essentially, knows and feels its own wants, urges, needs, and desires&#x2014;in sum, its will. For Schopenhauer, the will was the ontological essence of the human being, our true inner nature.</p>
<p>Schopenhauer completed his argument by noting that the human being is simply an object like every other in the world, composed of the same elemental substances and subject to the same laws and forces. If the human was essentially will, then so too was everything else. He thus reasoned that all things, in themselves, were will. His overall conclusion was that the things of the world were both, and at once, idea from the outside and will from the inside: &#x201C;For as the world is in one aspect entirely <i>idea</i>, so in another it is entirely <i>will</i>.&#x201D; (1819/1995: 5)</p>
<p>As has already been noted, the world as will directly challenges Kant&#x2019;s conception of a fundamentally unknowable <i>Ding an sich</i>. The difference between the two views, however, may not be as great as Schopenhauer presumed, if we recall Kant&#x2019;s speculation that the <i>Ding an sich</i> may be of a mind-like nature. Hartmann recognized this very point: &#x201C;What Kant entertained as timid supposition, that the thing of itself and the active subject might be one and the same existence, Schopenhauer declared as categorical assertion, in that he recognized the will as the positive character of this essence.&#x201D; (1869: 236) For Schopenhauer, the will was clearly and unambiguously mental. He thereby thrust the concept of the will into a central ontological role. Will, for him, was not merely the equivalent of human desire but was more generally a universal force, a drive, something that impelled and sustained all things. Hamlyn (1980: 95) argues that this will was &#x201C;a kind of force which permeates nature and which thus governs all phenomena.&#x201D; Magee (1983:145) describes it as literally force or energy&#x2014;making Schopenhauer out to be a dynamist or energeticist&#x2014;and argues that the developments of twentieth-century physics have &#x201C;provided the most powerful confirmation that could be imagined&#x201D; of his metaphysics.</p>
<p>Schopenhauer lends credence to the dynamist view in his own writing. On a number of occasions he equates will with the physical forces of nature. For example, he notes that &#x201C;the force which attracts a stone to the ground is according to its nature, in itself, and apart from all idea, will&#x201D; (1819: 38). In a later work, <i>&#x00DC;ber den Willen in der Natur</i> (On the Will in Nature), he states that &#x201C;generally every original force manifesting itself in physical and chemical appearances, in fact gravity itself&#x2014;all these in themselves &#x2026; are absolutely identical with what we find in ourselves as <i>will</i>&#x201D; (1836: 20).</p>
<p>But Schopenhauer goes further in his thesis that the world <i>is</i> will. He speaks of material things as literally &#x201C;objectifications of will&#x201D;&#x2014;as physical manifestations, or solidifications, or tangible embodiments of will. Of the human body, he says that &#x201C;the whole body is nothing but objectified will&#x201D; and &#x201C;the action of the body is nothing but the act of the will objectified&#x201D; (1819: 33). His graphic explanations leave no doubt: &#x201C;Teeth, throat, and intestines are objectified hunger; the genitals are objectified sexual desire.&#x201D; (41) Objectification occurs in varying levels or degrees throughout nature, generally corresponding to the complexity of the object. The human being is the highest grade of objectification; the physical forces are the basest. &#x201C;The most universal forces of nature present themselves as the lowest grade of the will&#x2019;s objectification.&#x201D; (61)</p>
<p>Since the will is clearly and unambiguously mental, panpsychism is a central feature of his metaphysics. Thus we can understand Popper&#x2019;s quip &#x201C;One can say that Schopenhauer is a Kantian who has turned panpsychist.&#x201D; (1977: 68) This aspect is particularly evident in Schopenhauer&#x2019;s concept of will as manifest in inorganic objects. Book II of <i>World as Will and Idea</i> focuses extensively on the identification of will with the forces of nature:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]he force which stirs and vegetates in the plant, and indeed the force by which the crystal is formed, that by which the magnet turns to the North Pole, the force whose shock [results] from the contact between different metals, the force which appears in the elective affinities of matter as repulsion and attraction, separation and combination, and, lastly, even gravitation, &#x2026; all these [are recognized] as in their inner nature as identical [to that] which is called <i>will</i>. (1819: 42)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This will in nature is, in principle, the same as the will in man:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[The will] is manifest in every force of nature that operates blindly, and it is manifest, too, in the deliberate action of man; and the great difference between these two is a matter only of degree of the manifestation, not in the nature of what is made manifest.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">One can see in this quotation a reflection of Spinoza&#x2019;s idea that &#x201C;all things are animate in varying degrees,&#x201D; and in fact Spinoza was highly influential in Schopenhauer&#x2019;s thinking. <i>World as Will and Idea</i> refers explicitly to Spinoza&#x2019;s notion that all things, even stones, possess an aspect of mentality:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Spinoza says that if a stone which has been catapulted through the air had consciousness, it would think that it was flying of its own will. I add only that the stone would be right. That catapulting is for the stone what the motive is for me &#x2026; . (58)<a id="FN3a"/><a href="#FN3"><sup>3</sup></a></p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The point here is that the inner nature of both men and stones is the same: will. Furthermore, it is a will that has the appearance of freedom to the subject. We feel free in our own actions, just as the stone (wrongly) would if it could contemplate such things. In any case, the essence of both is the same: &#x201C;In people [will] is called character, while in a stone it is called quality, but it is the same in each.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Even though Schopenhauer denied consciousness to all but the animals, it is clear that the will was to be described in terms of the human personality, and as a psychic or mental disposition:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">When we scrutinize [the forces of nature] closely, we observe the tremendous, irresistible force with which rivers hurry down to the sea, the persistence with which the magnet turns again and again to the North Pole, the readiness with which iron flies to the magnet, the eagerness with which in electricity opposite poles strive to be reunited, and which, just like human desire, is the more intense for being thwarted: &#x2026; it will cost us no great effort of the imagination, even at so great a distance, to recognize our own nature. (50)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Human nature is a reflection of universal nature. That which we see in ourselves must apply to reality writ large.</p>
<p>Schopenhauer&#x2019;s panpsychism is reiterated in his other two major works, <i>On the Will in Nature</i> (1836) and <i>Parerga und Paralipomena</i> (1851). In the former he looks to developments in the natural sciences as confirmation of his ideas. He finds in inorganic nature &#x201C;absolutely no trace of a consciousness of an external world,&#x201D; yet even such things as &#x201C;stones, boulders or ice floes&#x201D; are &#x201C;affected by an influence from without &#x2026; which one can accordingly regard as the first step toward consciousness&#x201D; (1836/1993: 82). And plants, though likewise lacking true consciousness, can be seen as experiencing &#x201C;an obscure self-enjoyment&#x201D; and &#x201C;a feeble analogue of perception.&#x201D; In examining the study of gravitation and astronomy, he notes with satisfaction that Herschel and Copernicus spoke of gravity in terms of &#x201C;desire&#x201D; and &#x201C;will&#x201D;: In 1883 Herschel wrote that objects drawn to the Earth are &#x201C;impelled to this by a force or effort, the direct or indirect result of a consciousness and a <i>will</i> existing somewhere,&#x201D; and in <i>De revolutionibus</i> Copernicus expresses a belief &#x201C;that gravity is nothing but a natural <i>craving</i>&#x201D; (85&#x2013;86). And Schopenhauer claims, for the record, to have been &#x201C;the first to say that a <i>will</i> is to be attributed to the inanimate, to the inorganic&#x201D; (88).<a id="FN4a"/><a href="#FN4"><sup>4</sup></a></p>
<p>This theme continues in Schopenhauer&#x2019;s late work <i>Parerga und Paralipomena</i>. In a notable passage near the end of that book, he decries the &#x201C;fundamentally false antithesis between <i>mind</i> and <i>matter</i>&#x201D; (1851/1974: 212). To the extent that one can speak of &#x201C;mind&#x201D; or &#x201C;matter&#x201D; in the real world&#x2014;that is, the inner and outer manifestations of things&#x2014;mind must be equally attributable to both the organic and the inorganic. Any two material objects, such as (to use his examples) the human body and a stone, have internal qualities that are of necessity alike. Both are driven by the same forces of nature, both have mass and volume, and both are thus describable in the same metaphysical terms. If in one case we find mind, so must we find it in the other:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Now if you suppose the existence of a <i>mind</i> in the human head, &#x2026; you are bound to concede a mind to every stone. &#x2026; All ostensible mind can be attributed to matter, but all matter can likewise be attributed to mind; from which it follows that the antithesis [between mind and matter] is a false one. (213)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In the same passage, Schopenhauer makes an important observation on the limitations of the mechanistic philosophy in comprehending such truths: The mechanist knows only the mathematically derivable effects of nature, not nature as it is in itself. For a mechanist, &#x201C;the exertion of weight in a stone is every bit as inexplicable as is thought in a human brain,&#x201D; and, insofar as these natural phenomena are related, &#x201C;this fact would suggest the presence of a mind in the stone.&#x201D;<a id="FN5a"/><a href="#FN5"><sup>5</sup></a> The mechanistic account of nature &#x201C;is limited &#x2026; to determining its spatial and temporal qualities.&#x201D; Furthermore,</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">as soon as we go beyond what is purely mathematical, &#x2026; we stand before modes of expression which are just as mysterious to us as the thought and will of man, &#x2026; for [to the mechanist] unfathomable is what every natural force is.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">All this is undoubtedly true, and is furthermore an important anticipation of the later and related thoughts by Bertrand Russell and Arthur Eddington. This insight, in fact, is the basis for the so-called Russellian monism, much discussed in recent years, which naturally lends itself to a form of panpsychism.</p>
<p>Schopenhauer explicitly acknowledges his debt to Empedocles, especially for the general concept of existence as a struggle between forces of will&#x2014;specifically, Love and Strife: &#x201C;Everywhere in nature we see strife, conflict, and the fickleness of victory. &#x2026; This strife may be seen to pervade the whole of nature; indeed nature &#x2026; exists only through it.&#x201D; (73&#x2013;74) He cites Aristotle&#x2019;s commentary: &#x201C;as Empedocles says, if there were no strife in things, everything would be one and the same&#x201D; (cf. <i>Metaphysics</i>, 1000b1). Thus nature reflects a kind of law of the jungle, with each form of existence competing with all others to maintain and fulfill itself.<a id="FN6a"/><a href="#FN6"><sup>6</sup></a></p>
<p>Schopenhauer saw struggle and strife all around him, and that led to his notoriously pessimistic assessment of life in general. He was exceptional in that instance; most all panpsychist philosophers seem to have adopted sympathetic, compassionate, and optimistic worldviews. Most philosophers seem to have found wonder and transcendence in the fact that mind pervades the universe. Schopenhauer saw a world of objectified wills locked in an eternal, almost Darwinian struggle for dominance. Such a view was, in its own way, influential, especially through Nietzsche.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S2"/>5.2&#x2003;<a id="d2e281"/>Fechner</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Gustav Fechner (1801&#x2013;1887) was, in a sense, the antithesis of the pessimist Schopenhauer. Fechner&#x2019;s vibrant, exuberant, life-enhancing perspective on the world was intimately and openly linked to his panpsychist philosophy, perhaps more so than the perspective of any other major philosopher. And he was a first-rate scientist and mathematician. He virtually invented the science of psychophysics, and he discovered the principle that the perceived strength of a sensation is proportional to the logarithm of the intensity of the stimulus (which came to be known as &#x201C;Fechner&#x2019;s Law&#x201D;). His important philosophical works include <i>Nanna, oder &#x00FC;ber das Seelen-Leben der Pflanzen</i> (Nanna, or on the Soul-Life of Plants, 1848), <i>Zend-Avesta</i> (1851), <i>&#x00DC;ber die Seelenfrage</i> (On the Soul-Question, 1861), and <i>Die Tagesansicht gegen&#x00FC;ber der Nachtansicht</i> (The Daylight View as Opposed to the Night View, 1873). The fact that little of this material has been translated into English accounts in part for Fechner&#x2019;s relative lack of exposure and analysis in the English-speaking countries. Only two books published in English explore his metaphysical views. The first is a series of partial translations of his major works compiled under the title <i>Religion of a Scientist</i> (1946). The second is a relatively lengthy and sympathetic discussion by William James in <i>A Pluralistic Universe</i> (1909). James was impressed by Fechner, calling him &#x201C;a philosopher in the &#x2018;great&#x2019; sense&#x201D; (149) and noting that the current state of knowledge of psychology, psychophysics, and religion had led to &#x201C;a decidedly formidable probability in favor of a general view of the world almost identical with Fechner&#x2019;s&#x201D; (309&#x2013;310).</p>
<p>The most important aspect of Fechner&#x2019;s panpsychism is his conception of the world as composed of a hierarchy of minds or souls (<i>Seele</i>). There are souls &#x201C;below&#x201D; us in the plants, and there are souls &#x201C;above&#x201D; us in the Earth, the stars, and the universe as a whole. Humans are surrounded, at all levels of being, by varying degrees of soul. This is Fechner&#x2019;s &#x201C;daylight view&#x201D;&#x2014;the human soul at home in an ensouled cosmos. He contrasted it with the materialist &#x201C;night view&#x201D; of humans as alone, isolated points of light in a universe of utter blackness.</p>
<p>Consider separately Fechner&#x2019;s discussions of the lesser (sub-human) and greater (super-human or collective) minds. The former consist almost entirely of discussions of plants, which he is sure possess minds. His case relies on a form of the Continuity argument and on an analogy with human beings,<a id="FN7a"/><a href="#FN7"><sup>7</sup></a> though he employs at least four other arguments for panpsychism. The Continuity argument appears repeatedly in <i>Nanna</i>, for example in this passage:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">If we take a cursory glance at some of the outstanding points, is not the plant quite as well organized as the animal, though on a different plan, a plan entirely of its own, perfectly consonant with its idea? If one will not venture to deny that the plant has a life, why deny it a soul? For it is much simpler to think that a different plan of bodily organization built upon the common basis of life indicates only a different plan of psychic organization. &#x2026; Whether it be a plant or an animal, the complexity of structure and process is so completely analogous, except that the cells are differently arranged &#x2026; . (1848/1946: 168&#x2013;169)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Because we cannot directly know the inner life of a plant, scientific or logical analysis is useless; &#x201C;in this field, one must remember, there is nothing we have to rely upon except analogy&#x201D; (175).</p>
<p>Fechner&#x2019;s personal, intuitive feel for the plant-soul is abundantly evident throughout his writing. One finds passionate and poetic words, such as the following:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I stood once on a hot summer&#x2019;s day beside a pool and contemplated a water-lily which had spread its leaves evenly over the water and with an open blossom was basking in the sunlight. &#x2026; It seemed to me that nature surely would not have built a creature so beautiful, and so carefully designed for such conditions, merely to be an object of idle observation. &#x2026; I was inclined rather to think that nature had built it thus in order that all the pleasure which can be derived from bathing at once in sunlight and in water might be enjoyed by one creature in the fullest measure. (177)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Or consider this passage, in which he describes the glory of the daylight view:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">With the abolition of the plants from the realm of souls how sparsely scattered would sensibility be in the whole realm of nature &#x2026; ! How different it all is, if the plants have souls and are capable of feeling! &#x2026; Is it not more beautiful and glorious to think that the living trees of the forest burn like torches uplifted towards the heaven? To be sure, we can only think this; we do not directly see anything of these soul-flames of nature; but since we <i>can</i> think it, why are we not willing to? (180)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">We see here a culmination and synthesis of Goethe&#x2019;s poetic imagery and Schelling&#x2019;s <i>Naturphilosophie</i>; it is a rebirth of the religious view of nature, and perhaps one of the earliest forerunners of the ecological worldview that, in Skolimowski&#x2019;s words, sees &#x201C;the world as a sanctuary.&#x201D;<a id="FN8a"/><a href="#FN8"><sup>8</sup></a> We find even stronger evidence of this in Fechner&#x2019;s discussion of the earth-soul.</p>
<p>According to Fechner, plant-souls are the most direct indicators of the overall panpsychic nature of the world. He explains this in <i>On the Soul-Question</i>:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[B]elief in the plant soul is just a little instance of the general situation &#x2026; , for in this whole question the least and the greatest things are closely connected. &#x2026; I considered that in the little soul of the plant I had found a little handle by which faith in the greatest things could be more easily hoisted to the big pedestal. (1861/1946: 138&#x2013;139)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">And, as he states in <i>Nanna</i>, &#x201C;the decision as to whether the plants are animated or not decides many other questions and determines the whole outlook upon nature&#x201D; (1848/1946: 163).</p>
<p>Of course, for Fechner this &#x201C;whole outlook&#x201D; is a panpsychic one in which every thing and every part of every thing is ensouled. Regarding plants, he argues that &#x201C;there are as many individuals as there are leaves on the tree, nay, there are in fact as many as there are cells&#x201D; (204). These individuals, whether cells or whole plants, are not simply part of some larger mind; they possess souls in their own right: &#x201C;It is only an independent animate life we have in mind when we enquire about the souls of plants.&#x201D; (165) Each thing has its own unique view on the world and interacts with the world as a unitary mind.</p>
<p>Perhaps more important than Fechner&#x2019;s elaborations on the plant-soul was his discussion of what James called the &#x201C;superhuman consciousness&#x201D;&#x2014;the mind of society, of the Earth, of the stars, and of the cosmos. Fechner was the first scientist-philosopher to examine these possibilities seriously and to regard them as actual features of reality. James provides an excellent summary:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In ourselves, visual consciousness goes with our eyes, tactile consciousness with our skin. &#x2026; They come together in some sort of relation and combination in the more inclusive consciousness which each of us names his <i>self</i>. Quite similarly, says Fechner, we must suppose that my consciousness [and yours, though] they keep separate and know nothing of each other, are yet known and used together in a higher consciousness, that of the human race. &#x2026; Similarly, the whole human and animal kingdoms come together as conditions of a consciousness of still wider scope. This combines in the soul of the earth with the consciousness of the vegetable kingdom, which in turn contributes &#x2026; to that of the whole solar system, and so on from synthesis to synthesis and height to height, till an absolutely universal consciousness is reached. (1909: 155&#x2013;156)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">So here is a view of mind as a nested hierarchy, reaching from the lowest forms to the highest. It is, as James said, &#x201C;a vast analogical series, in which the basis of the analogy consists of facts directly observable in ourselves&#x201D; (156).</p>
<p>Fechner&#x2019;s view is often described as a form of psycho-physical parallelism of the sort that Spinoza proposed. But Fechner went further, laying out an explicitly pluralist panpsychism. James embraced it wholeheartedly, while emphasizing that all these levels of hierarchy in the world possess, individually, their own minds:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The vaster orders of mind go with the vaster orders of body. The entire earth on which we live must have, according to Fechner, its own collective consciousness. So must each sun, moon, and planet; so must the whole solar system have its own wider consciousness, in which the consciousness of our earth plays one part. So has the entire starry system as such its consciousness &#x2026; . (152&#x2013;153)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The limit in this sequence, the mind of the cosmos, Fechner took as God.</p>
<p>Of special interest is Fechner&#x2019;s emphasis on the Earth as a consciousness and spirit, an &#x201C;angel&#x201D; that supports all life. His vision would seem to draw from the Platonic notion of the Earth as a god, and it anticipated the Gaia concept of the 1970s, in which the Earth is seen as a living, sentient being. The idea of an Earth-soul was critical to Fechner: &#x201C;Just as man is the starting point &#x2026; for belief in animate character of all other creatures, so is the animated earth the starting point &#x2026; for belief in the animate character of all other stars.&#x201D; (1861: 150) As with plants, he starts with a Continuity argument: &#x201C;[I]s not the earth in its form and content, like our bodies, and like the bodies also of all animals and plants &#x2026; ?&#x201D; (155) He then lays out four points in support of this view. First he notes that the Earth is a unified system, relatively closed and well defined. Second, it develops, like living organisms, from within; it is relatively self-sufficient, and it contains its own means for self-realization. Third, it is a complex being, vastly more so than any mere plant or animal. Last, it is a unique member of the class of planetary bodies, which constitute a kind of &#x201C;species&#x201D; of things.</p>
<p>Beyond these arguments, Fechner clearly adopted a spiritual and reverential attitude toward the Earth. It was not just some animated rock; it was his sacred home:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">One spring morning I went out early: the fields were greening, the birds were singing, the dew glistening; &#x2026; it was only a tiny fraction of the earth, only a tiny moment of its existence, and yet, as I comprised more and more in the range of my vision, it seemed to me not only so beautiful but so true and evident that it is an angel, so rich and fresh and blooming, and at the same time so stable and unified, moving in the heavens, turning wholly towards heaven its animated face, and bearing me with it to that same heaven&#x2014;so beautiful and true that I wondered how men&#x2019;s notion could be so perverted as to see in the earth only a dry clod &#x2026; . (1861: 153)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Such a divine being deserves our most profound reverence. As James said (1909: 153), Fechner &#x201C;treats the earth as our special human guardian angel; we can pray to the earth as men pray to their saints.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Though relying chiefly on analogy, Fechner used a variety of arguments to make his panpsychist claims. Above we have seen a number of arguments by Continuity, but he employed at least four other arguments:</p><ul class="none">
<li><i>In-Dwelling Powers</i>&#x2014;Plants have the power to take ordinary matter and make it living, and in this sense they have more &#x201C;vital force&#x201D; than do animals. &#x201C;Out of raw earth, water, air, and decaying substances the plant makes glorious forms and colors.&#x201D; (1848: 184)</li>
<li><i>Non-Emergence</i>&#x2014;The Earth must be sentient, because &#x201C;animate beings cannot arise from inanimate&#x201D; (1861: 156).</li>
<li><i>Design</i>&#x2014;The cosmos creates ensouled beings in order to attain full and complete enjoyment of existence. (Recall the passage on the water lily.)</li>
<li><i>Theological</i>&#x2014;Fechner admitted that there is an element of faith involved here, writing that &#x201C;however we begin it or however we end, we shall not be able to discover and impart any exact proofs&#x201D; (135). He noted that even in traditional theology the Spirit of God is everywhere: &#x201C;If one concedes a God who is at once omnipresent, omniscient, and omnipotent, then in a certain sense the universal animation of the world by God is already admitted.&#x201D; (1848: 163&#x2013;164)</li></ul>
<p>In the end, Fechner was, after all, a hard-headed rationalist. He spoke not as a poet, not as an artist or mystic, but as an empirical scientist drawing reasonable conclusions about the world. He made clear that his entire philosophical system was intended as a literal truth of reality: &#x201C;All this is not metaphorical, is not an hypothesis: it is a simple and literal statement of how things are.&#x201D; (1861: 153) Evidently it was a compelling vision, at least to certain prominent scientists. The Dutch physicist Hendrik Lorentz stated, in a letter of 1915, that he explicitly endorsed Fechner&#x2019;s psycho-physical parallelism:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]he mental and the material are inviolably tied to one another, they are two sides of the same thing. The material world is a way in which the <i>Weltgeist</i> appears, since the smallest particle of matter has a soul, or whatever one chooses to call it. This is all closely tied to Fechner&#x2019;s views &#x2026; and I think that we have to assume something similar. (in Heidelberger 2004: 178)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Albert Einstein concurred, stating in a 1922 letter that relativity theory was fully compatible with Fechner&#x2019;s views: &#x201C;To guard against the collision of the various sorts of realities&#x2019; with which physics and psychology deal, Spinoza and Fechner invented the doctrine of psychophysical parallelism, which, to be frank, satisfies me entirely.&#x201D; (in Heidelberger 2004: 177)</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S3"/>5.3&#x2003;<a id="d2e462"/>Other Scientist-Philosophers of the Age</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Among the German scientist-philosophers, Fechner was the outstanding proponent of a panpsychic worldview. However, a few other thinkers&#x2014;important philosophers in their own right&#x2014;merit discussion. They will be addressed here in the order in which their panpsychist views emerged.</p>
<p>R. Hermann Lotze (1817&#x2013;1881), trained as a physician and a philosopher, saw merit in both mechanism and idealism, and yet he sought to avoid the more extreme claims of each. He saw that mechanistic materialism was coming to dominate the philosophical and cultural landscape, and he was deeply concerned about the loss of reverence and wonder in the world.</p>
<p>Lotze&#x2019;s major work, <i>Microcosmos</i> (1856&#x2013;1864), describes his comprehensive views on mind and matter. He prefaces the entire discussion by describing the antipathy between &#x201C;mechanical science&#x201D; and &#x201C;Philosophy of the Feelings.&#x201D; Here we find one of the first explicit acknowledgments of two competing worldviews, two completely divergent platforms from which to understand the cosmos. As the mechanical view came to dominate, its weaknesses became apparent. The proponents of this view were becoming increasingly bold, even arrogant, and they showed utter disregard for the spiritual aspects of life. As Lotze explains, these people &#x201C;estimate the truth of their new philosophic views in direct proportion to the degree of offensive hostility which [this view] exhibits toward everything that is held sacred by the living soul of man&#x201D; (1856&#x2013;1864/1971: iii). They have forgotten that the true nature of intellectual inquiry is to ultimately provide &#x201C;one meaning&#x201D;: &#x201C;to trace an image of the world from which we may learn what we have to reverence as the true significance of existence&#x201D; (ix). Mechanism disintegrates the harmony of the ancient cosmic order, and &#x201C;the further advance of mechanical science begins to threaten with similar disintegration the smaller world, the <i>Microcosm of man</i>&#x201D; (xv).</p>
<p>The mechanist philosophers seek to describe everything in terms of forces and laws, but they overlook that such things &#x201C;are not the ultimate components of the threads that weave the texture of reality&#x201D; (xii). The reality Lotze has in mind is a panpsychic reality, one rather similar to Leibniz&#x2019;s monadology. Early in the book he briefly recounts the history of animism and its attribution of personal spirits to nature; he also examines its role in satisfying a deeper spiritual need of humanity&#x2014;the need to feel at home in the cosmos. Mechanistic philosophy, according to Lotze, has taken people completely away from this primitive worldview, and he slowly leads the reader back toward acceptance of just such a world. In part II he introduces the notion that all matter has &#x201C;a double life, appearing outwardly as matter, and as such manifesting &#x2026; mechanical [properties, while] internally, on the other hand, moved mentally&#x201D; (150). He speaks of this inner soul- or mental-life as an &#x201C;absolute indivisibility&#x201D; (157), and he proceeds to draw analogies between the soul and the indivisible atoms of matter.</p>
<p>In a very Leibnizian manner, Lotze proposes that in fact atoms are prime candidates for possessing an inner psyche: &#x201C;We once again take for granted in the multitudinous connected atoms of the body that internal psychic life which &#x2026; must be attributed to all matter.&#x201D; (161) Lotze&#x2019;s full panpsychist view is finally laid out in part III, where he makes his bid for &#x201C;a thoroughgoing revolt of the heart against the coldness of a theory that transforms all the beauty and animation of forms into a rigid physico-psychical mechanism&#x201D; (344). His panpsychism is founded on the principle of the indivisibility of the atom. Matter as &#x201C;infinitely divisible extension&#x201D; is &#x201C;an illusion&#x201D; (354); rather, matter consists of point-like atoms structured in a cohesive pattern by their respective forces. It is precisely this point-like nature of the atom that permits us to see it as a single unifying center of experience, with its own psychic life:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The indivisible unity of each of these simple beings [atoms] permits us to suppose that in it the impressions reaching it from without are condensed into modes of sensation and enjoyment. [As a result,] no part of being is any longer devoid of life and animation. (360)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Like the ancient Greeks, Lotze accepts that motion is ultimately attributable to such a psyche: &#x201C;We must &#x2026; in general allow and maintain that all motion of matter in space may be explained as the natural expression of the inner states of beings that seek or avoid one another with a feeling of their need.&#x201D; (363)</p>
<p>The psychic lives of atoms join together to create the soul of the body. For Lotze this occurs in a very specific and fundamental process of two-way interaction. He explains that bi-directional interaction is in fact the very basis of ontology, both physical and mental. Kuelpe (1913: 168) comments on this aspect of Lotze&#x2019;s philosophy: &#x201C;We know real relations &#x2026; only in the form of reciprocal action. Consequently the whole problem of &#x2018;being&#x2019; narrows down to acquiring an understanding of reciprocal relations.&#x201D; Lotze then claims that the soul, as a spiritual being, stands as an unchanging entity in relation to these changing reciprocal actions. Kuelpe adds this:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Consequently all things, whose unity we recognize and for which we presuppose real relations, must be considered after the analogy of our own inner being, as spirits or souls. According to this, our body is regarded by Lotze, as it was earlier by Leibniz, as a multiplicity of individual souls &#x2026; . (171)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Kuelpe proposes that this &#x201C;theory of reciprocal action is the most original and most important point&#x201D; of Lotze&#x2019;s metaphysics (173). It is undoubtedly a central aspect of his panpsychism, as it outlines an explanation for the combination problem that faces any monad-like ontology.</p>
<p>Lotze acknowledges the <i>prima facie</i> improbability of his view:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Who could endure the thought that in the dust trodden by our feet, in the &#x2026; cloth that forms our clothing, in the materials shaped into all sorts of utensils &#x2026; , there is everywhere present the fullness of animated life? (1856&#x2013;1864: 361)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">And yet this view fundamentally changes one&#x2019;s outlook on the world: &#x201C;dust is dust to him alone whom it inconveniences.&#x201D; Ultimately it is the &#x201C;beauty of the living form [that] is made to us more intelligible by this hypothesis&#x201D; (366). And this, says Lotze, is precisely why we must accept his view. Science itself neither wants nor needs panpsychism; rather, it is needed by the human spirit, to make the nature of the soul comprehensible.</p>
<p>Eduard von Hartmann (1842&#x2013;1906) further developed Schopenhauer&#x2019;s system of the world as will and idea, drawing in elements of Leibniz, Schelling, and Hegel into a doctrine of spiritual monism. In his most famous work, <i>Die Philosophie des Unbewussten</i> (Philosophy of the Unconscious), published in 1869, he articulates a view of the unconscious will as the cause of all things. The fact that matter is resolvable into will and idea leads Hartmann to conclude &#x201C;the essential likeness of Mind and Matter&#x201D; (1869/1950, volume 2: 81). Like Schopenhauer, he holds to a dynamist conception of matter, of the will as manifest in elementary atomic forces:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Hencewith is the radical distinction between spirit and matter abolished; their difference consists only in higher or lower forms of manifestations of the same essence. &#x2026; The identity of mind and matter [becomes] elevated to a scientific cognition, and that, too, not by killing the spirit but by vivifying matter. (180)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Hartmann continues by noting that previous attempts at monism were extreme: materialism denied spirit, and idealism denied matter. He sees his monism as a system that does justice to both.</p>
<p>Like Fechner, Hartmann sees each cell of the organic body as endowed with consciousness. The animal &#x201C;has as many (more or less separate) consciousnesses as he has nerve-centers, nay, even as he has vital cells&#x201D; (225). These individual consciousnesses are united through intimate communication:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Only because the one part of my brain has a direct communication with the other is the consciousness of the two parts unified; and could we unite the brains of two human beings by a path of communication equivalent to the cerebral fibers, both would no longer have two, but one consciousness. (224)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Communication and exchange thus resolve the combination problem, a view that recalls Diderot&#x2019;s claim.</p>
<p>Hartmann&#x2019;s work was prescient but unfortunately not very influential. His focus on the unconscious reappears, without credit, in the writings of Ernst Haeckel and Friedrich Paulsen. Generally speaking, his overall synthesis of ideas was underappreciated by later philosophers, in Germany and elsewhere.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The Austrian physicist Ernst Mach (1838&#x2013;1916) was known primarily for his scientific advances, but he produced some important philosophical writings in the early 1880s. He made substantial contributions to the philosophy of science, and he was an early proponent of logical positivism. For Mach, the primary aim of science was to predict and describe, and only secondarily to explain. Epistemologically he was strongly empiricist.</p>
<p>Mach developed a neutral monist philosophy in which the primary substance of existence was neither mind nor matter but rather &#x201C;sensations.&#x201D; That led him rather suddenly to a panpsychist conception of reality. &#x201C;In adolescence,&#x201D; Hamilton recounts (1990: 127), &#x201C;Mach was a Kantian, but then he reacted against the thing-in-itself, experiencing a panpsychic epiphany in which (to quote Mach) &#x2018;the world with my ego suddenly appeared to me as one coherent mass of sensations.&#x2019;&#x201D; It was around this time, in 1863, that Mach wrote the following:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Let&#x2019;s confess it straightaway! We cannot reasonably discover any external side to atoms, so if we are to think anything at all, we must attribute an internal side to them, an inwardness analogous to our own souls. In fact, how could a soul originate as a combination of atoms in an organism, if its germ were not already contained in the atom? (in Heidelberger 2004: 157)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This is a striking statement: Science reveals no &#x201C;exterior&#x201D; to atoms at all, only various fields of force. If they are to be real, then, they must have an interior, along the lines of our own mentality. And furthermore, since human minds cannot emerge from no-mind, it must reside in the atomic parts. Thus we find two compressed arguments for panpsychism in a single passage.</p>
<p>A decade later, Mach had apparently acquired something of an adverse reputation for such ideas. In his lecture notes of 1872, he cited a panpsychist statement by astrophysicist Karl Z&#x00F6;llner: &#x201C;Sensitivity is a general attribute of matter, more general than mobility.&#x201D; Mach then added this: &#x201C;I myself have been reproached for saying that.&#x201D; (in ibid.: 159)</p>
<p>Nonetheless, Mach persisted in his views, which were developed most fully in <i>The Science of Mechanics</i> (1883). &#x201C;Properly speaking,&#x201D; he wrote, &#x201C;the world is not composed of &#x2018;things&#x2019; &#x2026; but of colors, tones, pressures, spaces, times, in short what we ordinarily call individual sensations.&#x201D; (1883/1942: 579) On first glance the view that all things are sensations recalls a conventional Berkelian idealism, but then it becomes clear that there is no observing mind involved. One might call it a pansensist view, but one clearly different from the pansensism of Telesio or Campanella; they held that all things do sense (i.e., have the power of sensing), whereas Mach holds that all things in themselves <i>are</i> sensations. But who or what is doing the sensing? Or are things simply subjectless sensations? At one time he accepted the idea of a personal ego, but eventually he dropped it. He thus seems to ultimately have argued for a theory of &#x201C;objective sensations,&#x201D; independent of any so-called ego or subject.<a id="FN9a"/><a href="#FN9"><sup>9</sup></a></p>
<p>If Mach is less than clear on the details of his pansensism, he is unambiguous about his monist ontology and its panpsychist implications. &#x201C;The fundamental character of all these [human] instincts,&#x201D; he writes, &#x201C;is the feeling of our oneness and sameness with nature; a feeling &#x2026; which certainly has a <i>sound basis</i>&#x201D; (559). He goes on to characterize both mechanistic monism and animistic monism as inadequate worldviews:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[O]ur judgment has grown more sober. &#x2026; Both [the mechanical and animistic mythologies] contain undue and fantastical exaggerations of an incomplete perception. Careful physical research will lead &#x2026; to an analysis of our sensations. We shall then discover that our hunger is not so essentially different from the tendency of sulphuric acid for zinc, and our will not so greatly different from the pressure of a stone, as now appears. We shall again feel ourselves nearer nature, without its being necessary that we should resolve ourselves into a nebulous and mystical mass of molecules, or make nature a haunt of hobgoblins. (560)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Clearly Mach is sensitive to the close association between his view and primitive animism, and he wants to make nature sensate without introducing personal spirits. He seems to draw inspiration from Schopenhauer (note the comparison between &#x201C;will&#x201D; and &#x201C;pressure of a stone&#x201D;), if only implicitly, and we know from his other writings that he was highly influenced by Fechner. Mach equates the processes of nature with human inclinations and feelings, and his opposition to mechanistic ontology steers him toward a view of &#x201C;nature as animate&#x201D; rather than &#x201C;human as mechanical.&#x201D; His particular form of pansensism led the way for the soon-to-follow developments of James (radical empiricism) and Whitehead (process philosophy).</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">One of the first major philosophers to embrace Darwin&#x2019;s theory of evolution was Ernst Haeckel (1834&#x2013;1919). Haeckel, who developed the biogenetic law that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, quickly became known as the leading German Darwinist. He developed a monistic philosophy in which both evolution and the unity of all natural phenomena played major roles. His system was clearly panpsychist, even pantheist, and he strongly opposed the mysticism and irrationalism of Christianity.</p>
<p>Even in his first philosophical work, <i>The History of Creation</i> (1868), Haeckel vigorously promoted his monistic philosophy, using the theory of evolution as evidence. The unity and relatedness of all living things convinced him that all dualities were false, and especially that of body and mind. Furthermore, he argued, mind-body duality was a particular instance of the physical duality of matter and force (or energy), and hence that too was a false duality; body was equated with matter, mind was equated with energy, and all were intimately connected:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[B]ody and mind can, in fact, never be considered as distinct, but rather that both sides of nature are inseparably connected, and stand in the closest interaction. &#x2026; The artificial discord between mind and body, between force and matter, &#x2026; has been disposed of by the advances of natural science. (1868/1876: 487)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Science had now achieved what philosophy alone could not: compelling proof of the monist worldview. Truth was to be found in nature, and it was therefore &#x201C;necessary to make a complete and honest return to Nature and to natural relations&#x201D; (496). Natural science had proved the truth of evolution, and this theory promised great things for humanity: &#x201C;[In the future] mankind &#x2026; will follow the glorious career of progressive development, and attain a still higher degree of mental perfection.&#x201D; (495)</p>
<p>Haeckel was explicitly panpsychist by 1892. In an article for <i>The Monist</i> he wrote: &#x201C;One highly important principle of my monism seems to me to be, that I regard <i>all</i> matter as <i>ensouled</i>, that is to say as endowed with <i>feeling</i> (pleasure and pain) and <i>motion</i>.&#x201D; (1892: 486) Here he offers one argument for panpsychism, namely that &#x201C;all natural bodies possess determinate chemical properties,&#x201D; the most important being that of &#x201C;chemical affinity.&#x201D; This affinity, Haeckel says, can be explained only &#x201C;on the supposition that the molecules &#x2026; mutually <i>feel</i> each other&#x201D; (483). Elsewhere he employs evolution on behalf of the Continuity argument, claiming that evolution shows &#x201C;the essential unity of inorganic and organic nature&#x201D; (1895: 3). Evolutionary monism strikes at the heart of both the religious worldview and the mechanical philosophy: &#x201C;Our conception of Monism &#x2026; is clear and unambiguous; &#x2026; an immaterial living spirit is just as unthinkable as a dead, spiritless material; the two are inseparably combined in every atom.&#x201D; (58)</p>
<p>Haeckel&#x2019;s most famous work, <i>The Riddle of the Universe</i> (1899), was meant to be a popular book that would explain the essentials of the monistic view to the general public. It succeeded in becoming a best-seller in Europe&#x2014;rare for a work of natural philosophy. Drawing on the latest developments in physics, Haeckel presented the case for his monism, then claimed that science had proved the conservation of mass, the conservation of energy, and the equality between matter and energy. In the end he arrived at a neutral-monist position in which his ultimate reality was &#x201C;substance,&#x201D; which possessed two simultaneous attributes: matter and energy. He embraced the term &#x201C;force-matter,&#x201D; which was functionally identical to our present-day &#x201C;mass-energy.&#x201D; This was something of a milestone in the history of monistic philosophy. From the earliest days of philosophy, when Empedocles argued that all reality was composed of four elements (fire, air, water, earth) and two forces (Love and Strife), philosophers had sensed that things like mass and energy were of fundamental importance, but the monists perennially had difficulty explaining just how these two entities were to be unified. Haeckel saw in evolutionary monism the resolution to many age-old problems in philosophy.</p>
<p>The specific resolution that Haeckel envisioned was equating mass with body and energy with spirit, then uniting these two pairs in an explicitly Spinozan manner. He made this case throughout <i>The Riddle of the Universe</i>: All living creatures, microbes included, possess &#x201C;conscious psychic action.&#x201D; The inorganic world also possesses an inherent psychic quality, though he took care to emphasize that this is &#x201C;unconscious&#x201D; rather than &#x201C;conscious&#x201D; mentality. This applied even to the atoms: &#x201C;I conceive the elementary psychic qualities of sensation and will, which may be attributed to atoms, to be <i>unconscious</i>.&#x201D; (1899/1929: 179)</p>
<p>One of Haeckel&#x2019;s last major works, <i>The Wonders of Life</i> (1904), is primarily an elaboration of his previous ideas. In it, though, he refers to himself for the first time as a hylozoist, apparently fearing&#x2014;unnecessarily&#x2014;the connotation of consciousness with the term &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019;. &#x201C;Monism,&#x201D; he writes, &#x201C;is best expressed as hylozoism, in so far as this removes the antithesis of materialism and spiritualism (or mechanism and dynamism).&#x201D; (88) And it is in this work that he first proposes a third fundamental attribute to his one substance&#x2014;to matter and force he adds <i>psychoma</i>, or &#x201C;general sensation.&#x201D; This is his response to the charge that mere matter and force/energy are not in themselves &#x201C;psychic&#x201D; enough to account for mind. Paraphrasing and expanding on Goethe, he summarizes his view as follows: &#x201C;(1) No matter without force and without sensation. (2) No force without matter and without sensation. (3) No sensation without matter and without force.&#x201D; (465)</p>
<p>During Haeckel&#x2019;s lifetime, philosophy and science had diverged to the point that he could be criticized by professional philosophers as a &#x201C;mere scientist.&#x201D; The conflict was exacerbated by his bold claims that natural science had solved problems that traditional philosophy found intractable. He drew the ire of major philosophers of the day, most notable among them Friedrich Paulsen (1846&#x2013;1908). Paulsen was a panpsychist who had advocated a view that was substantially in agreement with Haeckel&#x2019;s.<a id="FN10a"/><a href="#FN10"><sup>10</sup></a> The root of the conflict seems to have lain in the fact that Haeckel&#x2019;s primary training had been in biology and science, and that he had come rather late, but with spectacularly success, to philosophy&#x2014;especially with <i>The Riddle of the Universe</i>. Paulsen disliked both Haeckel&#x2019;s claim that evolutionary theory was the key to philosophical progress and his belief that religion and classical metaphysics had been defeated by natural science. The criticisms have some merit, but Paulsen&#x2019;s disagreements seem to center more on professional competition than on substantial philosophy.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S4"/>5.4&#x2003;<a id="d2e670"/>A Survey of the Field</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Paulsen is an important figure in his own right. His 1892 <i>Introduction to Philosophy</i> was the first work in history to present a detailed academic survey of panpsychism and the first to review and summarize a number of historically important positions. In that book Paulsen also articulated his own views on panpsychism&#x2014;views that were substantially in line with those of Haeckel, Fechner, Schopenhauer, and Leibniz.</p>
<p>As a German philosopher, Paulsen&#x2019;s emphasis was, naturally, on German thought of the 1800s. In addition to Fechner, Schopenhauer, and Leibniz, he covered Lotze, Schelling, Wundt,<a id="FN11a"/><a href="#FN11"><sup>11</sup></a> von N&#x00E4;geli, and Z&#x00F6;llner, but he also referred to the panpsychist arguments of Spinoza, Hoeffding, and du Bois-Reymond. Paulsen&#x2019;s survey is far from exhaustive; he mentions early Greek thinkers only in passing, he makes no reference at all to Hellenistic philosophy, Renaissance naturalism, or French vitalist materialism, and he inexplicably ignores the work of Hartmann and Mach. Despite these weaknesses, <i>Introduction to Philosophy</i> is an important book, presenting virtually every extant argument for panpsychism. Panpsychism is not the entire focus of the book, but it is clearly a central theme, forming the core of chapter 1 and persisting as a primary theme throughout. Many of Paulsen&#x2019;s formulations of existing arguments are still advocated and debated today, and thus it is worthwhile to examine his general case for panpsychism in some detail.</p>
<p>Paulsen begins by attacking the basis of materialism. He claims that the materialistic theory&#x2014;characterized as the theory that &#x201C;all reality is corporeal or the manifestation of corporeality&#x201D;&#x2014;is a fundamentally inadequate conception. He immediately adopts an idealist standpoint: &#x201C;Bodies have [only] phenomenal existence. &#x2026; Their entire essence is a content of perception.&#x201D; (1892/1895: 75) He then attributes to materialist philosophers two possible views: that &#x201C;states of consciousness are effects of physical states&#x201D; (reductive materialism) and that &#x201C;states of consciousness &#x2026; are nothing but physical states of the brain&#x201D; (identity theory). He dismisses the second view, that &#x201C;thoughts are movements in the brain,&#x201D; by claiming that such a statement has no meaning. One is then obliged, he argues, to consider that the physical and the psychical bear some sort of relationship to one another. This relationship must be either interactionist (and hence causal) or parallelist (and therefore acausal). Materialism, Paulsen claims, typically opts for the former. But this involves a &#x201C;transformation of motion or force into thought,&#x201D; resulting in a &#x201C;destruction of energy&#x201D; in the physical realm&#x2014;a recognized impossibility. Similarly, a transference from the psychical to the physical would appear as &#x201C;creation out of nothing&#x201D; and hence also impossible. Thus, one is forced to conclude that a form of parallelism must be true.</p>
<p>Parallelism, or acausality, logically assumes that the mental doesn&#x2019;t affect the physical, and conversely that the physical doesn&#x2019;t affect the mental. The first condition leads one to the view that &#x201C;the living body is an automaton&#x201D; (87), albeit a complex and sophisticated one. Of the second condition, Paulsen states that psychical events, such as a particular sensation, must have a cause. Since the cause cannot be physical&#x2014;under the conditions of parallelism&#x2014;it must be psychical. In other words, mental events are caused only by preceding events of a like nature.</p>
<p>Paulsen concludes, along with Spinoza and Fechner, that physical events move along in corporeal causal chains, and mental events move along in psychical causal chains. The two chains simply proceed together; they are &#x201C;concomitant.&#x201D; Furthermore, Paulsen claims that, of the two chains, the psychical is the more fundamental, because it is &#x201C;the representation of reality as it is by itself and for itself&#x201D; (92). He attributes this advance to Leibniz. And it justifies his claim that such a view is a form of idealism.</p>
<p>Paulsen then addresses the question of panpsychism: In which physical structures does this parallel chain of events exist? Like Schopenhauer, he begins introspectively. Each person is directly aware of his own mental states. He then extends this by analogy to other human beings and deduces the existence of others&#x2019; mental states. The crucial question is &#x201C;How far may this inference be extended?&#x201D; The commonly accepted view of the time was to include all animals, but he notes that there is no sharp dividing line between animals and plants, and that therefore the rational conclusion is that plants possess an inner life as well. He notes additional similarities between animals and plants: in aspects of nutrition, cellular structure, genetic reproduction, development and death, even language. In considering whether such a position constitutes a proof of the plant-soul, Paulsen quickly turns the tables on the materialist: &#x201C;To deny that there is [a plant-soul], would, to say the least, require some proof.&#x201D; (96) &#x201C;The burden of proof,&#x201D; he argues, &#x201C;rests on him who denies the validity of the analogical syllogism. He must show why it is not valid here, otherwise his negation is arbitrary.&#x201D; (98)</p>
<p>Eventually Paulsen arrives at the main point of contention: the inorganic world. In brief, his arguments are the following:</p><ul class="none">
<li>(1) There is &#x201C;no difference in substance&#x201D; between organic and inorganic bodies; they are &#x201C;composed of the same ingredients&#x201D; (the Evolutionary Continuity argument). Developments in biology and chemistry had confirmed this by the late 1800s, and the theory of vitalism&#x2014;that living beings are composed of some unique material or substance&#x2014;was becoming discredited. &#x201C;The same forces act in inorganic as well as in organic bodies.&#x201D; (104)</li>
<li>(2) The question &#x201C;Whence did psychical life arise?&#x201D; (100) raises the classic emergence issue. The sudden appearance of a mental realm &#x201C;would be an absolute &#x2018;world-riddle&#x2019;; it would mean a creation out of nothing.&#x201D; This Non-Emergence argument is supported by natural science. Since scientists accept that organic beings are formed out of inorganic material, and hence no new &#x201C;vital substance&#x201D; appears, they should accept the same reasoning and allow that psychical life of the higher organisms is composed of lower elements of inorganic mentality. And within the realm of living beings, the theory of evolution supports this view: &#x201C;The process of psychical evolution runs parallel with the evolution of organic life.&#x201D; (143)</li>
<li>(3) Paulsen addresses the argument that living beings exhibit &#x201C;spontaneous activity,&#x201D; and that this is an indication of an inner sense. He points out that chemistry and physics demonstrate that even the smallest and simplest pieces of matter are active, self-organizing, and responsive (the Indwelling Powers argument): &#x201C;Your inert, rigid matter &#x2026; is a phantom that owes its existence, not to observation, but to conceptual speculation. &#x2026; Modern science has utterly discarded that idea of such absolutely dead and rigid bodies. Its molecules and atoms are forms of the greatest inner complexity and mobility.&#x201D; (101&#x2013;102) This, of course, is true, and aligns with our current thinking.</li>
<li>(4) Schopenhauer&#x2019;s Continuity argument, based on first principles, holds that all things appear to us as sensations or sensory phenomena&#x2014;that is, as ideas. But, like humans, things must also have an inner nature. Thus, Paulsen informs us, &#x201C;that which appears to us as a body must be something in and for itself&#x201D; (105). We know firsthand that human bodies have an inner sense, and logically &#x201C;analogous phenomena point to analogous inner being.&#x201D; Therefore, &#x201C;to every body which &#x2026; appears as a relatively complete system of phenomena and activities, [the logical thinker] ascribes a relatively complete inner life like his own.&#x201D;</li></ul>
<p>Like Fechner, Paulsen applied similar reasoning to large-scale systems such as the Earth, concluding that it is clearly reasonable to ascribe them an inner life as well. Ultimately he acknowledged that such arguments stand on a different plane than conventional scientific or materialist ones: &#x201C;these thoughts are not matters of scientific knowledge. &#x2026; This is no place for real scientific work.&#x201D; (109) &#x201C;Still,&#x201D; he continued, &#x201C;they have their value.&#x201D; The world-soul, which he saw as a logical necessity, can serve as a kind of non-religious deity, arrived at by reasoning rather than ancient theological texts. More important, &#x201C;this view destroys the negative dogmatism of a purely physical view of the world&#x201D; (110). Conversely, the hallmark of an &#x201C;empty and low life&#x201D; is the development of &#x201C;a nihilistic conception of life, [and] a loss of reverence for moral and spiritual greatness&#x201D; (69). Inevitably, &#x201C;such a nihilistic view of life naturally tends to a materialistic philosophy&#x201D; (70). For Paulsen, materialism was an indicator of weakness and deficiency; panpsychism was a sign of greatness and depth.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S5"/>5.5&#x2003;<a id="d2e738"/>Nietzsche and the Will to Power</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">No philosopher placed more emphasis on the philosophy of greatness than Friedrich Nietzsche (1844&#x2013;1900). If Paulsen saw panpsychism as the path to greatness, Nietzsche strode that path with the utmost flair and conviction. The foundational concept of this approach was his ultimate metaphysical principle, <i>der Wille zur Macht</i>&#x2014;the will to power. In humans, according to Nietzsche, this power is manifest as the consummate life-affirming drive, an inclination to achieve dignity, mastery and greatness. But it is also the ground-source of the flourishing of life generally, and most broadly, the force by which all things in nature exert and expand their claim on existence. A strong argument can be made that the will to power was ultimately a form of panpsychism, but one that he developed only cautiously.</p>
<p>The evolution of Nietzsche&#x2019;s thinking on panpsychism constitutes a fascinating study of the emergence of one of his central themes. It seems that he was strongly predisposed to something like panpsychism from his teenage years, though initially it was more a version of classical pansensism than a system based on the will. From late 1865, when Nietzsche was 21 years old, the influence of Schopenhauer&#x2019;s panpsychist metaphysics became pronounced, ultimately looming over of all of his writings. Parallel to his thinking on panpsychism was his development of the will-to-power thesis. For several years these two concepts existed side by side; not until in 1884, when he was 40, did they become unified.</p>
<p>The strikingly hostile reception to Nietzsche&#x2019;s panpsychism among recent commentators is directly relevant to the present study. His view is denied, defamed, denigrated, and ignored&#x2014;despite considerable evidence to the contrary. Indeed, this is a case study in present-day attitudes toward panpsychism generally.</p>
<p>Let me begin by presenting the evidence for Nietzsche&#x2019;s panpsychism in his own words. It is extensive, but most of his statements on the topic occur not in his published works but in the <i>Nachlass</i>, his unpublished notebooks. Consistent with their unpublished status, they are also unpolished&#x2014;often mere sentence fragments, and cryptic ones at that. This is perhaps the critics&#x2019; strongest point; had he truly been committed to panpsychism, they say, he surely would have emphasized it in his published books. But I do not find that argument very compelling. Nietzsche&#x2019;s primary concern seems to have been humanity&#x2014;specifically our values, our religious beliefs, our societal norms, and our human condition. His metaphysics is developed primarily as it applies to human beings and their place in the world. At least toward the end of his short productive life, he seems not to have developed a systematic metaphysics of reality in general&#x2014;at least, not to the point where he was ready to compose a book on the subject.<a id="FN12a"/><a href="#FN12"><sup>12</sup></a> With more time, he might have tackled the subject directly. As it is, we must reconstruct his thinking largely on the basis of the notebook entries.</p>
<p>His earliest known reference to panpsychism comes from 1861, when Nietzsche was only 17 years old. In an autobiographical essay, he notes in passing that &#x201C;the &#x2018;spiritless&#x2019; [<i>Geistlose</i>] cannot exist&#x2014;all that is, lives.&#x201D;<a id="FN13a"/><a href="#FN13"><sup>13</sup></a> One may be inclined to dismiss such a passage as mere youthful hylozoistic musing, but it does indicate a general sympathy to the idea, and from an early age.</p>
<p>More than a decade passed before Nietzsche&#x2019;s next series of comments on the subject. In his notebooks of 1872 we read the following:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Is there such a thing as an unconscious inference? Does matter <i>infer</i>? It has feelings and it strives for its individual being.</p>
<p>What if thoughts were the essence of things? What if memory and sensation were the <i>matter</i> of things?</p>
<p>The impact, the influence of one atom upon another is likewise something which presupposes <i>sensation</i> [<i>Empfindung</i>].<a id="FN14a"/><a href="#FN14"><sup>14</sup></a> Something which is intrinsically alien can have no effect upon anything else. What is difficult is not awakening sensation, but awakening consciousness. Yet this is nevertheless explicable if everything is sensate. [In this case,] whether larger or smaller, these sensation complexes would be called &#x2018;will&#x2019;.<a id="FN15a"/><a href="#FN15"><sup>15</sup></a></p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Notable here is his recognition that a pansensist universe would solve the emergence problem. Also significant is his connection, already at this early date, between the sensation-complexes and the will.</p>
<p>In the same year, 1872, Nietzsche published his first major work, <i>The</i> <i>Birth of Tragedy</i>&#x2014;a book that contains some suggestive though ambiguous passages relating to panpsychism. He writes of the &#x201C;omnipotent art impulses&#x201D; in nature, and notes that the more closely he perceives them the more he is &#x201C;impelled to the metaphysical assumption [of] the truly existent primal unity&#x201D; which is &#x201C;eternally suffering and contradictory&#x201D; (section 4). A few lines later he speaks of &#x201C;suffering, primal and eternal, the sole ground of the world.&#x201D; These thoughts recur in section 5, where the &#x201C;primal unity&#x201D; is said to experience &#x201C;pain,&#x201D; and the &#x201C;heart of the world&#x201D; is portrayed as &#x201C;primordial contradiction and primordial pain, together with primordial pleasure.&#x201D; All this points to a kind of sensitivity at the core of being. Also suggestive is Nietzsche&#x2019;s extended quotation of Schopenhauer&#x2019;s panpsychist masterpiece <i>The World as Will and Idea</i> in the same section.<a id="FN16a"/><a href="#FN16"><sup>16</sup></a></p>
<p>In the following year, 1873, we find this notebook entry: &#x201C;I have nothing but sensation [<i>Empfindung</i>] and idea [<i>Vorstellung</i>]. &#x2026; That which is, is sensation and idea.&#x201D; (KGW 26[11])<a id="FN17a"/><a href="#FN17"><sup>17</sup></a> Three years later, in 1876, we find the first mention of the phrase <i>Wille zur Macht</i> (will to power) in the notebooks (KGW 23[63]); it would not appear in published form until <i>Thus Spoke Zarathustra</i> in 1883. As was noted above, there was no initial linkage between will to power and anything like panpsychism.</p>
<p>The will-to-power thesis was slow to develop. A second appearance in the notebooks would not occur until 1880 (KGW 4[239]), some four years after its debut. But related terms did gradually emerge. <i>Daybreak</i> (1881), for example, includes several mentions of a &#x201C;feeling of power&#x201D; (<i>Gef&#x00FC;hl der Macht</i>).<a id="FN18a"/><a href="#FN18"><sup>18</sup></a> <i>The</i> <i>Gay Science</i> (1882) includes a reference to &#x201C;the doctrine of the feeling of power&#x201D; in section 13, and in section 310 Nietzsche examines &#x201C;will and wave,&#x201D; in which the crashing ocean waves exhibit many signs of purposive activity.<a id="FN19a"/><a href="#FN19"><sup>19</sup></a></p>
<p>In <i>Zarathustra</i> (1883) we find the first publication of the phrase &#x201C;will to power&#x201D;: &#x201C;A tablet hangs over every people. &#x2026; Behold, it is the voice of their will to power.&#x201D; (1883/1954: 170) Later in the work there is an implied connection to Schopenhauer:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Where I found the living, there I found will to power. &#x2026; Only where there is life is there also will: not will to life but&#x2014;thus I teach you&#x2014;will to power. (226&#x2013;227)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Schopenhauer&#x2019;s notion of the world as will is elaborated in his primary work as a specific form of will, namely will to <i>life</i>: &#x201C;And since what the will wills is always life &#x2026; it is all one and a mere pleonasm if, instead of simply saying &#x2018;the will,&#x2019; we say, &#x2018;the will to life&#x2019;&#x201D; (1819/1995: 177).<a id="FN20a"/><a href="#FN20"><sup>20</sup></a> Nietzsche rejected this qualification, even as he initially found will to power only in living things. Life wills <i>power</i>, not merely more life.</p>
<p>Had this been his final word on the matter, we would have had will to power as a strictly organic phenomenon; in <i>Zarathustra</i>, only living things will power. In recent literature, this interpretation is called the &#x201C;biological will-to-power.&#x201D; Some current commentators believe that this was always Nietzsche&#x2019;s view, or even that he only ever meant it to apply to human beings (&#x201C;anthropocentric will-to-power&#x201D;). My claim here, by contrast, is for <i>ontological</i> will-to-power<a id="FN21a"/><a href="#FN21"><sup>21</sup></a>: will to power as an essential feature of reality. Only this suffices to demonstrate a panpsychist outlook.</p>
<p>Up to <i>Zarathustra</i>, we have no evidence of ontological will-to-power in the writings of Nietzsche. But a contemporaneous notebook entry suggests that something comparable is forthcoming. In an important 1883 entry, Nietzsche comments on the lack of grounding for the assumption that matter is non-experiential: &#x201C;Substance devoid of feeling is only a hypothesis! No experience [of this]! Sensation [<i>Empfindung</i>] is thus a property of substance: there are sensitive substances.&#x201D; (KGW 24[10]) Then in the next year, 1884, we find a decisive and unambiguous notebook entry: &#x201C;reduction of generation to the will to power (it must also be present in the appropriated inorganic matter!)&#x201D; (KGW 26[274]). This is our first indication that a shift has occurred; will to power is now seen as residing in matter itself. If the will is now an ontological feature of reality, as it was for Schopenhauer, then a form of panpsychism obtains.</p>
<p>In 1885, several of Nietzsche&#x2019;s notebook entries confirm the ontological view. Consider this clear and explicit statement from <i>Writings from the Late Notebooks</i>: &#x201C;that it is the will to power which guides the inorganic world as well, or rather, that there <i>is</i> no inorganic world&#x201D; (Nietzsche 2003: 15). Most of the relevant entries from that year, though, appear in the posthumous book <i>The Will to Power</i> (1906/1967):</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The only force that exists is of the same kind as that of the will. (section 490)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The victorious concept of &#x201C;force&#x201D; &#x2026; still needs to be completed: an inner will must be ascribed to it, which I designate as &#x201C;will to power.&#x201D; (section 619)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">We cannot think of an attraction divorced from an <i>intention</i>. (section 627)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The drive to approach&#x2014;and the drive to thrust something back are the bond, in both the inorganic and the organic world. The entire distinction is prejudice. (section 655)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">There is absolutely no other kind of causality than that of will upon will. (section 658)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Perhaps the most dramatic such statement appears in the final entry in the book (still from 1885):</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle"><i>This world is the will to power&#x2014;and nothing more</i>! And you yourselves are also this will to power&#x2014;and nothing more! (section 1067).</p></blockquote>
<p>But there is nothing on the ontological will-to-power thesis in Nietzsche&#x2019;s published works until <i>Beyond Good and Evil</i> (1886), wherein we find the extended and hotly debated section 36, in which he seems to endorse the ontological view. But his tone raises questions, providing an opening for his critics. He writes in provisional language (&#x201C;Suppose &#x2026; &#x201D;) and speaks of an &#x201C;experiment&#x201D;: What, he asks, if &#x201C;the so-called mechanistic (or &#x2018;material&#x2019;) world&#x201D; held the same rank as &#x201C;a more primitive form of the world of affects in which everything still lies contained in a powerful unity&#x201D; before it became &#x201C;organic&#x201D;&#x2014;&#x201C;as a kind of instinctive life,&#x201D; as a &#x201C;<i>pre-form</i> of life.&#x201D;<a id="FN22a"/><a href="#FN22"><sup>22</sup></a> If the will has causal power, he writes, &#x201C;then we have to make the experiment of positing the causality of the will hypothetically as the only one. &#x2026; In short, one has to risk the hypothesis whether &#x2026; all mechanical occurrences are not, insofar as a force is active in them, will force, effects of will.&#x201D; The section concludes as follows:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Granted finally that one succeeded in explaining our entire instinctual life as the development and ramification of <i>one</i> basic form of will&#x2014;as will to power, as is <i>my</i> theory&#x2014;[then] one would have acquired the right to define <i>all</i> efficient force unequivocally as: <i>will to power</i>. The world seen from within, the world described and defined according to its &#x201C;intelligible character&#x201D;&#x2014;it would be &#x201C;will to power&#x201D; and nothing else.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I won&#x2019;t relate here the many alternate interpretations of this section.<a id="FN23a"/><a href="#FN23"><sup>23</sup></a> On my view, the suppositional form and the &#x201C;experimental&#x201D; language do not alter the basic commitment to the message. It is rather like an atheist saying &#x201C;Suppose there were no God&#x201D; and then laying out his case. It is a rhetorical tactic, nothing more.</p>
<p>We find two other clues later in <i>Beyond Good and Evil</i>. Section 186 speaks assertively of &#x201C;a world whose essence is will to power&#x201D;&#x2014;a relatively clear and explicit phrase. But then we have section 259, which has been used by some proponents of biological will-to-power, and against the ontological view. Nietzsche writes that &#x201C;life simply <i>is</i> will to power,&#x201D; and of &#x201C;the will to power, which is after all the will of life.&#x201D; But this is no contradiction: On the ontological view, everything, life included, is will to power. If on certain occasions he emphasizes this fact, it doesn&#x2019;t exclude the notion that nonlife is also will to power. He doesn&#x2019;t say that <i>only</i> life is will to power. He simply observes that life, like everything, is such a will at its core.</p>
<p>A second published reference to the ontological view appears in <i>On the Genealogy of Morals</i> (1887). The primary passage comes in the second essay, but early in the work we read that &#x201C;a quantum of force is equivalent to a quantum of drive, will, effect&#x2014;more, it is nothing other than precisely this very driving, willing, effecting&#x201D; (34). Nietzsche then cites an inorganic example&#x2014;lightning&#x2014;to press his point, followed by references to the scientific concept of force, the atom, and the thing-in-itself. The main passage, though, comes in section 12 of the second essay:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">&#x2026; all aims, all uses are merely <i>signs</i> indicating that a will to power has mastered something less powerful than itself and impressed the meaning of a function upon it in accordance with its own interests. So the entire history of a &#x201C;thing,&#x201D; an organ, a custom may take the form of an extended chain of signs &#x2026; . (58)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The meaning of this becomes clearer as we progress:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I emphasize this central perspective of historical method all the more since it is fundamentally opposed to the prevailing instincts and tastes of the time, which would rather accommodate the absolute arbitrariness, even mechanistic senselessness of all that happens, than the theory of a <i>will to power</i> manifesting itself in all things and events. (59)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The &#x201C;senselessness&#x201D; of mechanistic philosophy derives from the fact that it posits nothing, no motive force, at the center of material reality. There is no interior at all. This notion is reflected in the contemporaneous book 5 of <i>The</i> <i>Gay Science</i>, in which Nietzsche says &#x201C;an essentially mechanical world would be an essentially <i>meaningless</i> world&#x201D; (section 373).</p>
<p>The year 1887 also continued the string of relevant notebook entries. In <i>The</i> <i>Will to Power</i> we read:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">&#x201C;Being&#x201D; as the universalization of the concept &#x201C;life&#x201D;. &#x2026; Being&#x2014;we have no idea of it apart from the idea of &#x201C;living.&#x201D;&#x2014;How can anything dead &#x201C;be&#x201D;? (sections 581&#x2013;582)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In <i>Writings from the Late Notebooks</i> (Nietzsche 2003) we find this: &#x201C;what appears to be &#x2018;purposiveness&#x2019; &#x2026; is merely the consequence of the <i>will to power</i> played out in everything that happens&#x201D; (156). And this: &#x201C;the &#x2018;will to power&#x2019; expresses itself in the <i>interpretation</i>, in the <i>way</i> that <i>force is consumed</i>&#x201D; (199). Will to power seems to be a primordial aspect of the world: &#x201C;the &#x2018;will to power&#x2019; cannot have become&#x201D; (207). And further: &#x201C;all &#x2018;purposes,&#x2019; &#x2018;goals,&#x2019; &#x2018;meanings,&#x2019; are only modes of expression and metamorphoses of the single will that inheres in all that happens, the will to power&#x201D; (217).</p>
<p>Into his last productive year, 1888, Nietzsche continued such observations with unwavering consistency. In one of his final published works, <i>Antichrist</i>, he virtually defines will to power as the ultimate good: &#x201C;What is good? All that enhances the feeling of power, the Will to Power&#x201D; (section 2). <i>The</i> <i>Will to Power</i> contains several reiterations of the ontological view:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Every atom affects the whole of being. &#x2026; That is why I call it a quantum of &#x201C;will to power.&#x201D; (section 634)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The will to power not a being, not a becoming, but a <i>pathos</i>&#x2014;the most elemental fact from which a becoming and effecting first emerge. (section 635)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[E]very center of force&#x2014;and not only man&#x2014;construes all the rest of the world from its own viewpoint, i.e. measures, feels, forms, according to its own force. &#x2026; My idea is that every specific body strives to become master over all space and to extend its force (&#x2014;its will to power) &#x2026; . (section 636)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[A]ll driving force is will to power, that there is no other physical, dynamic or psychic force except this. (section 688)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The will to accumulate force. &#x2026; Should we not be permitted to assume this will as a motive cause in chemistry, too?&#x2014;and in the cosmic order? (section 689)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[L]ife is merely a special case of the will to power. (section 692)</p></blockquote><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]he innermost essence of being is will to power &#x2026; . (section 693)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">And then the last such entry (2003: 259):</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">That will to power in which I recognize the ultimate grounds and character of all change &#x2026; .</p></blockquote>
<p>Such is the evidence. Objectively considered, the case for ontological will-to-power&#x2014;that is, for panpsychism&#x2014;seems clear enough. Nietzsche&#x2019;s lifelong sympathy, the extensive notebook entries (documented over the final five years of his productive life), and the occasional published references all point to this conclusion. His general acceptance of Schopenhauer as his &#x201C;great teacher&#x201D;<a id="FN24a"/><a href="#FN24"><sup>24</sup></a> is another clue, as is his high regard for the panpsychist pre-Socratic philosophers. Galen Strawson (2015b) is certainly sympathetic to this conclusion; that Nietzsche held that &#x201C;reality is suffused with&#x2014;if it doesn&#x2019;t consist of&#x2014;mentality in some form or sense&#x201D; he calls &#x201C;very probably true&#x201D; (11). On the strength of the primary evidence, it would be difficult to come to any other determination.</p>
<p>Or so one would think. Somehow, though, mainstream thinking on Nietzsche disagrees&#x2014;and strongly. A review of the recent literature exposes the striking fact that nearly every recent commentator opposes the ontological view, and dismisses any talk of panpsychism in the strongest possible terms. This phenomenon is highly revealing as a statement on panpsychism generally.</p>
<p>The tone was set in 1950, when Walter Kaufmann, in an influential book titled <i>Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist</i>, concluded that &#x201C;the projection of the will to power from the human sphere to the cosmos is an afterthought&#x2014;an extreme conjecture which is not substantiated by the evidence and at variance with Nietzsche&#x2019;s own critical principles&#x201D; (367). Later, in his entry on Nietzsche in <i>The Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>, Kaufmann put it even more bluntly: &#x201C;As a metaphysical theory about the universe or ultimate reality, the doctrine need not be taken seriously, not even in an effort to understand Nietzsche.&#x201D; (1967/1972: 510) Nehamas (1985: 75) clearly agrees, calling the ontological view &#x201C;horrible,&#x201D; a &#x201C;wildly implausible picture,&#x201D; and &#x201C;unflinchingly obscure.&#x201D; By 1990, Maudemarie Clark was ready to launch an all-out attack, arguing that the ontological view is not &#x201C;worthy of serious consideration&#x201D; (209), that there is &#x201C;overwhelming reason to deny that Nietzsche accepts&#x201D; the view (213), and that Nietzsche himself &#x201C;pretty much admits [that it is] only interpretation&#x201D; (221). Poellner (1995: 286) simply states that &#x201C;this [ontological] model is itself not a coherent one.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Things did not improve in the new millennium; in fact they got worse. Richardson (2000: 114) finds the &#x201C;vitalist&#x201D; ontological view &#x201C;unbelievable,&#x201D; something that &#x201C;involve[s] a confused projection of human cognitive powers into places they simply can&#x2019;t be.&#x201D; Williams (2001: 77) states, flatly, &#x201C;I interpret will to power nonmetaphysically, noncosmologically, and nonontologically.&#x201D; For Moore (2002: 43), ontological will-to-power is &#x201C;anthropomorphic&#x201D; and &#x201C;reminiscent of Leibniz&#x2019;s pan-animism.&#x201D; Bittner (2003: xxi) castigates Nietzsche for being &#x201C;somewhat cavalier&#x201D; and writes that the ontological view represents a kind of &#x201C;mummification&#x201D; of thought; it is &#x201C;really sunk&#x201D; and has &#x201C;no chance of being true.&#x201D; For Richardson (2004: 51), it is merely a &#x201C;useful fiction,&#x201D; a &#x201C;metaphor or image.&#x201D; The literal view is &#x201C;incredible&#x201D; and an &#x201C;apparent absurdity&#x201D; (64). Stack (2005: 198) finds the crucial section 36 of <i>Beyond Good and Evil</i> to be &#x201C;a completely suppositional <i>Gedanken-experiment</i>&#x201D; that lays out a &#x201C;deliberately constructed exoteric myth.&#x201D; It is &#x201C;an elaborate, cleverly devised deception&#x201D; and &#x201C;cunningly misleading.&#x201D; Porter (2006: 551) finds the ontological view &#x201C;deeply anthropomorphic&#x201D; and &#x201C;too fantastical even to imagine.&#x201D; Mincing no words, Janaway (2007: 153) calls it an &#x201C;appalling embarrassment,&#x201D; asserting that defenders of the panpsychist interpretation have &#x201C;a virtually impossible task&#x201D; and that section 36 is &#x201C;not really a literally meant argument at all.&#x201D;</p>
<p>The past few years have brought more of the same. Young (2010: 545) says there is &#x201C;nothing more anthropomorphic&#x201D; than the ontological view, calling it &#x201C;obviously false.&#x201D; Clark and Dudrick (2012: 237) declare the view &#x201C;a nonstarter,&#x201D; &#x201C;laughable,&#x201D; and &#x201C;obviously implausible.&#x201D; For Endries and Pichler (2013: 105) the &#x201C;supposedly central &#x2018;doctrine&#x2019;&#x201D; is &#x201C;purely virtual.&#x201D; Leiter (2013: 594) calls the ontological view &#x201C;silly,&#x201D; &#x201C;unimportant,&#x201D; and (four times on the same page) &#x201C;crackpot.&#x201D; Loeb (2015) at least tries to be objective, writing that the widespread &#x201C;interpretive hostility&#x201D; to the ontological view &#x201C;derives from a misunderstanding of this concept as panpsychist&#x201D; (!). Surprisingly, Loeb asserts that section 36 of <i>Beyond Good and Evil</i> is &#x201C;actually &#x2026; a refutation of panpsychism&#x201D; (85), merely a &#x201C;counterfactual thought experiment&#x201D; that involves a &#x201C;confused projection of human psychology&#x201D; (72). In the end, he writes, &#x201C;Nietzsche&#x2019;s naturalistic methodology commits him to rejecting panpsychism as an anthropomorphic falsification of nature and reality.&#x201D; (76)<a id="FN25a"/><a href="#FN25"><sup>25</sup></a></p>
<p>What can we say about such statements? What thinking is operating behind such evidently deficient assessments?<a id="FN26a"/><a href="#FN26"><sup>26</sup></a> I think we can reconstruct an implicit argument here: (1) Panpsychism is a ludicrous and discredited thesis. (2) No philosopher of any merit would hold such a view. (3) Nietzsche is among the greatest philosophers in history. Therefore, (4) Nietzsche was not a panpsychist. And then the analysis proceeds from there. The evident bias is clear. Undoubtedly all the above commentators know little or nothing about the history or arguments for panpsychism; if such were not the case, they would not dismiss it out of hand as &#x201C;crackpot,&#x201D; &#x201C;laughable,&#x201D; or a &#x201C;nonstarter.&#x201D;</p>
<p>The situation with Nietzsche today is comparable to that with Spinoza in the middle years of the twentieth century, when nearly all commentators were hostile to panpsychism. It took 30 or 40 years for the consensus opinion to shift to a panpsychist reading. By all accounts, a comparable shift on Nietzsche&#x2019;s views will take as long.</p>
<section>
<h2>Notes</h2>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN1"/><span><a href="#FN1a">1.</a></span> <i>Vorstellung</i> is sometimes translated as &#x201C;Representation&#x201D; (e.g., in the 1958 translation by Payne), and occasionally as &#x201C;Presentation&#x201D; (e.g., by McCabe in Haeckel 1904: 466). The translation as &#x201C;Idea&#x201D; is found in the 1883 translation by Haldane and Kemp and in the 1995 Berman translation, which I will follow here.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN2"/><span><a href="#FN2a">2.</a></span> Second Meditation (1641).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN3"/><span><a href="#FN3a">3.</a></span> Letter 58, Spinoza to Schuller, dated 1674, cited on p. 267 of Spinoza 1677/1994.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN4"/><span><a href="#FN4a">4.</a></span> This is not true, as we have seen. Leibniz attributed appetite or desire to all monads, which is a form of will. Campanella granted will or love to all things, as one of his three primalities. And even Empedocles&#x2019; concepts of Love and Strife can be seen as manifestations of will. But it is true that Schopenhauer was the first to explicitly declare the will as the essential reality of physical things.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN5"/><span><a href="#FN5a">5.</a></span> I note in passing that Ludwig Wittgenstein was significantly influenced by Schopenhauer&#x2019;s metaphysics, and two passages in <i>Philosophical Investigations</i> (1953) seem to refer to his notion that a stone has a mind. Both occur in book I. The first passage reads &#x201C;Could one imagine a stone&#x2019;s having consciousness? And if anyone can do so&#x2014;why should that not merely prove that such image-mongery is of no interest to us?&#x201D; (section 390) Wittgenstein is clearly disparaging the entire notion. The second passage seems to at least suspend judgment on the matter: &#x201C;Is my having consciousness a fact of experience?&#x2014;But doesn&#x2019;t one say that a man has consciousness, and that a tree or a stone does not?&#x2014;What would it be like if it were otherwise?&#x2014;Would human beings all be unconscious?&#x2014;No; not in the ordinary sense of the word. But I, for instance, should not have consciousness&#x2014;as I now in fact have it.&#x201D; (section 418) He suggests that the consciousness of man and of tree or stone are necessarily of different types&#x2014;that seeing stones as conscious would entail viewing humans as something else, as &#x201C;unconscious.&#x201D; He seems unwilling to consider them as both possessing a common type of mentality, in any sense of the word. Thus he rejects one of Schopenhauer&#x2019;s main theses.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN6"/><span><a href="#FN6a">6.</a></span> This has clear ethical implications in the social realm. Schopenhauer (1819/1995: 74) notes that it speaks to a view in which <i>homo homini lupus</i>&#x2014;man is a wolf to man.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN7"/><span><a href="#FN7a">7.</a></span> For an analysis of Fechner&#x2019;s analogical arguments, see Woodward 1972.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN8"/><span><a href="#FN8a">8.</a></span> See, for example, Skolimowski 1990, 1992, and 1993.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN9"/><span><a href="#FN9a">9.</a></span> This was the view of Hamilton (1990: 117&#x2013;118): &#x201C;the &#x2018;given&#x2019; &#x2026; was not to be construed as given <i>to</i> someone. &#x2018;Experience&#x2019; was essentially subjectless.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN10"/><span><a href="#FN10a">10.</a></span> For a good summary of Paulsen&#x2019;s criticisms, see DeGrood 1965: 57&#x2013;64.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN11"/><span><a href="#FN11a">11.</a></span> Wilhelm Wundt is occasionally cited as a panpsychist, but he seems to have been half-hearted at best. His primary treatise on psychology (1892) offers scant mention of the subject. He does oppose emergentism (&#x201C;It is surely inadmissible to suppose that mental existence suddenly appeared at some definite point in the developmental chronology of life&#x201D;&#x2014;1892/1894: 443), which implicitly leaves him with some form of panpsychism. But the discussion that follows includes only a single passage that cautiously endorses it: &#x201C;[W]e have every right to assume that primitive mentality was a state of simple feeling and sensing; while the possibility that this state accompanies every material movement-process &#x2026; is still certainly not to be denied. At least, it looks very much more probable than the materialistic function hypothesis, if we accept the dictum &#x2018;Ex nihilo nihil fit&#x2019; [out of nothing comes nothing].&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN12"/><span><a href="#FN12a">12.</a></span> Early in 1889, when he was only 44 years old, Nietzsche suffered a severe mental breakdown that ended his productive life. The cause is unknown; it has been variously attributed to syphilis, manic-depression, meningioma, stroke, and early-onset dementia.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN13"/><span><a href="#FN13a">13.</a></span> <i>Denn alles, was ist, lebt</i> (Nietzsche 1954, volume 3: 89).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN14"/><span><a href="#FN14a">14.</a></span> <i>Empfindung</i> is usually translated as &#x201C;sensation,&#x201D; but it can also mean &#x201C;feeling&#x201D; or &#x201C;perception.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN15"/><span><a href="#FN15a">15.</a></span> Nietzsche 1979: 35&#x2013;36.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN16"/><span><a href="#FN16a">16.</a></span> And again, at even greater length, in section 16. The English translations of passages in <i>The</i> <i>Birth of Tragedy</i> given here are Kaufmann&#x2019;s.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN17"/><span><a href="#FN17a">17.</a></span> KGW refers to <i>Kritische Gesamtausgabe Werke</i> (Colli and Montinari 1967). The German text is available at <a href="http://www.nietzschesource.org/">http://www.nietzschesource.org/</a> under &#x201C;Posthumous fragments.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN18"/><span><a href="#FN18a">18.</a></span> See sections 23, 113, 189, 204, 348, and 356.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN19"/><span><a href="#FN19a">19.</a></span> &#x201C;How greedily the wave approaches, as if it were after something! &#x2026; It seems that it is trying to anticipate someone. &#x2026; And now it comes back &#x2026; with excitement; is it disappointed?&#x2014;But already another wave is approaching &#x2026; and its soul, too, seems to be full of secrets and the lust to dig up treasures. Thus live waves &#x2026; .&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN20"/><span><a href="#FN20a">20.</a></span> Of course, this will to life is embodied in all things, non-living included. Evidently, for Schopenhauer even inorganic substances have a will to life.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN21"/><span><a href="#FN21a">21.</a></span> Also called cosmological or metaphysical will-to-power in the literature.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN22"/><span><a href="#FN22a">22.</a></span> This recalls Aristotle&#x2019;s &#x201C;sort of life&#x201D; in all things, discussed in chapter 2 of the present volume.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN23"/><span><a href="#FN23a">23.</a></span> For a flavor of the debate, see Clark 1990: 212&#x2013;218; Clark and Dudrick 2012: 229&#x2013;243; Endres and Pichler 2013; Hill 2007: 77&#x2013;87; Janaway 2007: 154&#x2013;157; Loeb 2015; Stack 2005: 197&#x2013;201.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN24"/><span><a href="#FN24a">24.</a></span> Preface to <i>On the Genealogy of Morals</i>.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN25"/><span><a href="#FN25a">25.</a></span> Strawson (2015b) gives one of the few sympathetic treatments. Parkes (1994) and Hill (2007) are relatively neutral on the matter. Reginster (2012) declares himself &#x201C;agnostic.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN26"/><span><a href="#FN26a">26.</a></span> As evidence of this deficiency, the reader is invited to review any of the critical sources mentioned above and then determine how many of the relevant Nietzsche passages are cited there.</aside></section></section><!--LinebreakQC:true--></body></html>