<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Panpsychism from 1950 to the Present</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/mit.css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<header>
<h1>9&#x2003;<span class="chapterTitle"><a id="d2e69"/>Panpsychism from 1950 to the Present</span></h1></header>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The previous chapter detailed some recent ideas and approaches to panpsychism from within the scientific tradition, broadly conceived. From a philosophical perspective, panpsychism diversified greatly in the middle and late years of the twentieth century, following a number of different routes.</p>
<p>First there was the ongoing development of the Whiteheadian process view, which had been defended and articulated for decades by Hartshorne. His writing was complemented by that of several other process philosophers, most notably Griffin but also including Ford, Birch, De Quincey, and others. The process philosophers have been among the more consistent and vocal advocates of panpsychism over the past several decades, and they deserve credit for keeping the topic alive within philosophical discourse.</p>
<p>Additionally we find a range of other approaches. The panpsychist implications of a part-whole hierarchy, first articulated by Cardano, were adopted and modernized by Koestler. Dual-aspect views, which are at least implicitly panpsychist, were defended by thinkers as diverse as Feigl, Nagel, Globus, Plumwood, and Chalmers. In the work of Abram, Berman, Zohar, Wilber, Harvey, and Orr, populist treatments also emerged. The endorsement of panpsychism by the prominent analytic philosopher Galen Strawson was a major development in the field. So-called Russellian monism has been taken up in earnest by professional philosophers, many of whom spell out the panpsychist implications. And various efforts have been made to build upon the insights of Peirce and to connect recent work in chaos theory and dynamical systems to forms of panpsychism.</p>
<section>
<h2><a id="S1"/>9.1&#x2003;<a id="d2e100"/>Developments in the 1960s and the 1970s</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In the second half of the twentieth century, apart from Hartshorne, a number of philosophical voices argued for variations on the panpsychist theme. Unsurprisingly, many were from outside the mainstream of traditional academia. Academic philosophy, having become thoroughly immersed in the analytic and linguistic disciplines, seems to have largely abandoned the deeper, more penetrating, more metaphysical questions of mind. Modern philosophy, at least as practiced in the major universities, primarily serves to perpetuate a positivistic, mechanistic worldview. As William James said, philosophy is ultimately about vision. The vision of modern philosophy is predominantly an analytical one, and thus largely sterile and inert: a world of passive matter acted on by blind forces. That such a world can give rise to life and mind becomes an inexplicable fact and an eternal mystery.</p>
<p>Scattered references to panpsychism, many of them confused and ambivalent, continued to appear in the 1950s and the 1960s. Consider the philosopher Herbert Feigl. In 1958 he published a lengthy and influential article, &#x201C;The &#x2018;Mental&#x2019; and the &#x2018;Physical,&#x2019;&#x201D; in which he argued for a form of the identity theory that has been interpreted by certain writers as a kind of panpsychism. Identity theories generally equate the physical states of the brain with mental states, typically stating directly that mental states are brain states. On that view, a physical alteration in brain state necessarily implies a changed mental state, in a kind of one-to-one relationship. Such a mind-brain identity presents a number of difficulties, as Feigl points out; one of these is the precise meaning of &#x2018;identical&#x2019;.<a id="FN1a"/><a href="#FN1"><sup>1</sup></a> Under most interpretations, it means that the mental is somehow dependent on or supervenient upon the physical.</p>
<p>If mental states are identical to physical brain or neural states, and if neural states are seen as not fundamentally unlike physical processes in general, then one is strongly inclined toward a panpsychist view. If one accepts an identity theory and yet denies panpsychism, then one necessarily accepts that there is something ontologically unique about the physical processes occurring in the brain, such that they alone give rise to consciousness or mind&#x2014;a position that smacks of a kind of neo-vitalism and is extraordinarily difficult to defend.</p>
<p>Feigl seems to have recognized this dilemma, and yet he wavers between the two horns. After ruling out many common descriptors of &#x201C;mental,&#x201D; he determines that the two most appropriate terms are &#x201C;direct experience&#x201D; (qualia) and &#x201C;intelligence.&#x201D; Both are required, because if intelligence alone were chosen &#x201C;as the sole criterion of mentality, then it would be hard to draw a sharp line anywhere within the realm of organic life. Even in the kingdom of plants &#x2026; we find processes [characteristic] of purposive behavior.&#x201D; (1958: 411&#x2013;412) Furthermore, the notion of intelligence &#x201C;may be attributed not only to the higher animals but also to the &#x2018;thinking machines&#x2019; [computers]&#x201D; (419).<a id="FN2a"/><a href="#FN2"><sup>2</sup></a> Other putative characteristics of mind are inappropriate: &#x201C;mnemic, teleological, holistic, and emergent features are not adequate as criteria of mentality, because these features characterize even inorganic processes and structures&#x201D; (415)&#x2014;apparently implying that panpsychism cannot be true, by definition.<a id="FN3a"/><a href="#FN3"><sup>3</sup></a></p>
<p>All this leaves the &#x201C;raw feels&#x201D; of direct experience&#x2014;that is, qualia or sentience&#x2014;as the critical factor. Sentience can be attributed to things, Feigl argues, only by analogy: &#x201C;I have no doubt that analogy is the essential criterion for the ascription of sentience.&#x201D; (427) And analogy, of course, is at the heart of many panpsychist arguments. Feigl notes this but then claims that &#x201C;the panpsychists&#x2019; hypothesis is inconsistent with the very principles of analogy which they claim to use&#x201D; (451). This statement is based on &#x201C;the enormous differences in behavior&#x201D; between, for example, humans and insects. But this is no real counter-argument. Panpsychism in general accepts large differences in both qualitative states and functional behavior; it merely claims that all structures experience <i>some</i> qualia, even if they are unimaginably slight or foreign to us. It is thus not clear exactly how or why the panpsychist hypothesis is inconsistent.</p>
<p>Feigl&#x2019;s wavering on this issue is especially evident later in the essay. On the one hand, &#x201C;the identity theory regards sentience &#x2026; and other [unexperienced] qualities &#x2026; as the basic reality&#x201D; (474). Yet at the same time he seeks to avoid &#x201C;the unwarranted panpsychistic generalization.&#x201D; However, &#x201C;one is tempted, with the panpsychists, to assume some unknown-by-acquaintance qualities quite cognate with those actually experienced&#x201D; (475). A strange sort of ambivalence is obviously present here.</p>
<p>Feigl&#x2019;s position has been interpreted in varying ways, and even at the time it was apparent to many that he was implicitly arguing for panpsychism. He reacted to the criticism shortly thereafter: &#x201C;Well-intentioned critics have tried to tell me that [my position] is essentially the metaphysics of panpsychism. &#x2026; It is not panpsychism at all&#x2014;either the &#x2018;pan&#x2019; or the &#x2018;psyche&#x2019; has to be deleted in the formulation.&#x201D; (1960: 31) After adding that, in his view, &#x201C;nothing in the least like a psyche is ascribed to lifeless matter,&#x201D; he concludes that the term &#x2018;pan-quality-ism&#x2019; &#x201C;come[s] much closer to a correct characterization than &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019;.&#x201D;</p>
<p>And yet Feigl was never able to shake the panpsychist implications of his view. Popper (1977: 200) made him out to be a virtual panpsychist. Sprigge characterized his position as &#x201C;to all intents and purposes, panpsychist&#x201D; (1984: 7). Chalmers (1996: 166) classed him with Russell as a sympathizer of panpsychism. Privately, Feigl seems to have accepted this close association. Grover Maxwell recalled him as having said &#x201C;If you give me a couple of martinis, a good dinner, and a couple of after-dinner drinks, I would admit that I am strongly tempted toward (a rather watered-down, innocuous) panpsychism.&#x201D;<a id="FN4a"/><a href="#FN4"><sup>4</sup></a> If true, this is indicative of his deep-seated conflictions about the subject.</p>
<p>Another implicit reference to panpsychism came in 1967 with Arthur Koestler&#x2019;s book <i>The Ghost in the Machine</i>. Koestler&#x2019;s theory is centered on a triple-aspect hierarchical structuring of reality. On his view, each well-defined structure or object possesses three essential characteristics: Each is composed of parts at lower levels of existence, is a whole in itself, and is a part of larger wholes. In this system&#x2014;which closely reflects but doesn&#x2019;t acknowledge Cardano&#x2019;s outlook&#x2014;each thing so conceived is referred to as a holon. Atoms are holons, as are cells, animals, social groups, and the Earth.</p>
<p>Koestler was clear that such an ordering encompasses living and nonliving systems, and that it implies a certain common basis for dynamic interaction with the world. The interactive mode of humans relates to our minds, and thus there is the implication that all holons relate to the world in a somewhat mind-like manner:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">As we move downward in the hierarchy &#x2026; we nowhere strike rock bottom, find nowhere those ultimate constituents which the old mechanistic approach to life led us to expect. <i>The hierarchy is open-ended in the downward, as it is in the upward direction.</i> (1967: 61&#x2013;62)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Each holon struggles to maintain its own order of existence (&#x201C;self-assertive tendency&#x201D;) and yet also seeks to participate in larger-order structures (&#x201C;participatory or self-integrative tendency&#x201D;). This much is perhaps clear as it applies to living organisms, but Koestler was compelled by his own theory to acknowledge these tendencies at all levels of being. He saw this immediately and yet recoiled from the panpsychist implications:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">It would, of course, be grossly anthropomorphic to speak of &#x2018;self-assertive&#x2019; and &#x2018;integrative&#x2019; tendencies in inanimate nature, or of &#x2018;flexible strategies.&#x2019; It is nevertheless true that in all stable dynamic systems, stability is maintained by the equilibrium of opposite forces, one of which may be centrifugal or separative &#x2026; representing the holistic properties of the part, and the other a centripetal or attractive or cohesive force which keeps the part in its place in the larger whole &#x2026; . (62&#x2013;63)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In the appendix Koestler adds that each level of being attains progressively greater consciousness: &#x201C;Each upward shift is reflected by a more vivid and precise consciousness of the ongoing activity; and &#x2026; is accompanied by the subjective experience of freedom of decision.&#x201D; (347) Thus, in spite of his denial of panpsychism, he clearly ascribed mental-like qualities to all levels of existence. Like Feigl, he seems to have been torn by the implications of his own theory.</p>
<p>Koestler appears never to have resolved this conflict. Eleven years later he returned to the issue of mind in nature, explicitly addressing the topic of panpsychism. In <i>Janus</i> he observes (incorrectly) that &#x201C;panpsychism and Cartesian dualism mark opposite ends of the philosophical spectrum&#x201D; (1978: 229). His &#x201C;holarchic&#x201D; system, he claims, &#x201C;replaces the panpsychist&#x2019;s continuously ascending curve from cabbage to man by a whole series of discrete steps&#x2014;a staircase instead of a slope.&#x201D; Yet each step represents some level or degree of mentality:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In the downward direction we are faced with a multiplicity of levels of consciousness or sentience which extend far below the human level. &#x2026; The hierarchy appears to be open-ended both in the upward and downward direction. (230)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Koestler thus once again accepted the existence of sentience throughout the ontological hierarchy, yet denied that his system was a form of panpsychism. The two views are difficult to reconcile.</p>
<p>The psychiatrist and philosopher Gordon Globus developed a panpsychist reading of the identity theory in the early 1970s. Starting from Feigl&#x2019;s basic conception, Globus emphasized that there is no ontological divide between neural events and general physical events. &#x201C;The present biological perspective,&#x201D; he wrote, &#x201C;suggests that physical nonneural events and those physical neural events identical with consciousness per se have similarity qua events&#x201D; (1972: 299). Thus he was led to ask &#x201C;Could consciousness per se &#x2026; be in some way equivalent to the ultimate physical events which comprise reality?&#x201D; His initial conclusion was that they are, if not identical, at least &#x201C;congruent.&#x201D;</p>
<p>In 1973 Globus wrote that mind is the process of embodying a physical event. The brain performs this function very well, and in fact &#x201C;its capability for thus embodying events is identical with its capability of mind&#x201D; (1134). But the brain is only a special, highly evolved instance of a physical structure. Other systems also embody events; &#x201C;less evolved organs, organisms, and machines have only a &#x2018;protomind&#x2019; to the extent that they are capable of embodying events.&#x201D; This theory became explicit panpsychism in Globus&#x2019; 1976 article &#x201C;Mind, Structure, and Contradiction.&#x201D; Seeking to avoid a naive animism, he articulates a &#x201C;psychoneural structural identity thesis&#x201D; that associates mind with all physical structures. Adapting and modifying the Cartesian position into a dual-aspect theory, he argues that mind is &#x201C;unbounded&#x201D; whereas brain is &#x201C;bounded,&#x201D; but that each refers to the same structure of the underlying reality. The structure of the mind and the structure of the brain are &#x201C;<i>one and the same</i>, even though the &#x2018;stuff&#x2019; structured is unbounded in the first case and bounded in the second&#x201D; (282). As an example Globus mentions the sense of sight, in which a pattern of light reflects off some object and reaches the eye:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]he electromagnetic waves impinging on the retina &#x2026; conserves the structure of the &#x201C;object&#x201D; from which it has been reflected. &#x2026; Further, the &#x201C;stuff&#x201D; structured varies: from whatever the object &#x201C;stuff&#x201D; is, to a light &#x201C;stuff,&#x201D; and finally to a neural &#x201C;stuff&#x201D;&#x2014;but the structure <i>per se</i> is (more or less) maintained. (287)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Structure is thus embodied in many different forms. In humans we recognize mind as one aspect of this. More generally it is an &#x201C;intrinsic perspective&#x201D; that varies only according to the particular embodiment. Another of Globus&#x2019; examples is the following:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[A] brain and a rock are systems differing enormously in &#x201C;richness&#x201D; of structure, and the respective &#x201C;minds&#x201D; accordingly differ enormously. &#x2026; Although I appreciate that most will consider it ridiculous to attribute awareness to a rock, for my purposes, I choose to emphasize the awareness intrinsic to rock. (290)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">He employs the ancient Continuity argument: &#x201C;At heart, the issue is just that there is no place to unarbitrarily draw a line (or even a range) in a hierarchy of systems increasing in complexity, above which we can say that mind occurs and below which it does not.&#x201D; The whole notion of mind as emerging only in high-complexity structures is &#x201C;human chauvinism at its worst.&#x201D; Acknowledging that such a panpsychic worldview is &#x201C;almost impossible to fathom&#x201D; from within the scientific mindset, Globus concludes his &#x201C;defense of panpsychism&#x201D; with an appeal to intuitive and even mystical insight as necessary for full comprehension. Clearly panpsychism lies fundamentally outside the framework of contemporary mechanistic materialism, and therefore a radical break of some kind is required to deeply grasp and adequately assess such a view.</p>
<p>After these insightful early pieces, Globus moved away from the topic for more than three decades. He returned to it 2009 with an intricate new argument, not for true panpsychism, but for a very widespread presence of qualia in the natural world. Drawing from quantum theory, specifically from quantum thermofield dynamics (QTD), Globus argues that qualia, and hence mind, emerge only where there exists cooperative or correlated dynamics. QTD, he says, &#x201C;does in fact prescribe a lower boundary below which there can be no cooperative dynamics, and without cooperative dynamics there is nothing mind-like, just the tedious random noise of fully thermalized systems&#x201D; (2009: 67). This allows us, in some cases, to make precise determinations. Water, for example, can sustain quantum coherence only above a span of about 50 microns&#x2014;roughly the width of a human hair. &#x201C;Below the 50 micron threshold, cooperative dynamics cannot be sustained in water&#x201D; (73), and thus a water-based organism&#x2019;s nervous system must be structured above that threshold to allow for the emergence of consciousness. Globus concludes that, generally speaking, &#x201C;any structured matter with cooperative dynamics has characteristics of psi [qualia] that arise above the coherence length&#x201D; (82). Exactly what these systems are remains unclear; presumably they are widespread in the natural world but are certainly not universal. QTD thus &#x201C;halts the descent into panpsychism,&#x201D; but nonetheless &#x201C;offers far more than panpsychist scoffers imagine.&#x201D;</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S2"/>9.2&#x2003;<a id="d2e222"/>Mind in Nature: Panpsychism and Environmental Philosophy</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Any metaphysical system that views all natural objects as endowed with mind-like qualities will have clear implications for one&#x2019;s attitude toward nature and the environment. The growing awareness of environmental problems in the latter part of the twentieth century coincided with the emergence of ecological philosophy and the field of environmental ethics. Thinkers in these areas developed a variety of philosophical systems that attempted to create a deeper and more intimate connection between humanity and nature; these included deep ecology, eco-philosophy, indigenous-culture worldviews, Gaia theory, spiritualism, eco-theology, and various forms of pantheism.</p>
<p>Of particular interest are those philosophical systems that are grounded in animist or panpsychist ontologies. Such systems have their historical roots in a variety of individuals, some of whom I have discussed in previous chapters. One of the earliest was Francis of Assisi, who saw the Spirit of God in all natural things and thus treated everything with the greatest reverence. In the sixteenth century, Bruno&#x2019;s pantheistic and panpsychist metaphysics implied a deeper integration of humanity into the natural order. His system put forth a &#x201C;call for a healing of the division between nature and divinity decreed by Christianity&#x201D; (Ingegno 1998: xxi). Calcagno (1998: 208) reflected on Bruno&#x2019;s &#x201C;effort to reattach the self to its broader natural context&#x2014;something perhaps which eco-philosophy is attempting to achieve.&#x201D; Leibniz demonstrated evident compassion toward even the smallest of creatures. In a passage titled &#x201C;Duties to Animals and Spirits&#x201D; (1784&#x2013;85), Kant mentions that &#x201C;Leibniz put the grub he had been observing back on the tree with its leaf, lest he should be guilty of doing any harm to it.&#x201D; The vitalistic materialism of LaMettrie supported his sensitivity and passion for nature; the person who sees all things as animate &#x201C;will cherish life &#x2026; ; he will be full of respect, gratitude, affection, and tenderness for nature &#x2026; ; and, finally, happy to know nature and to witness the charming spectacle of the universe&#x201D; (1747/1994: 75). Schopenhauer was pessimistic about humanity but displayed both admiration and concern for nature; he wrote against cruelty to domestic animals and lamented the damage caused by the advance of industrial society. Goethe&#x2019;s panpsychic worldview was deeply intermingled with his romantic sensitivity to the natural world. And Fechner, of course, grounded his ecstatic love of nature in a thoroughly panpsychic vision of the universe, and he deserves to be held as a founding father of the modern environmental movement; certainly he anticipated much of Gaia theory, more than a hundred years before Lovelock.</p>
<p>In the middle of the nineteenth century, Thoreau&#x2019;s intimate awareness of nature led him to a kind of pantheism in which the Earth was alive and animate, as a single living organism&#x2014;see &#x201C;A Winter Walk&#x201D; or &#x201C;Succession of Forest Trees&#x201D; in <i>Walden</i>. Perhaps his most explicit writing on the subject is to be found in a journal entry dated December 31, 1851:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T[here is motion in the earth as well as on the surface; it lives and grows. It is warmed and influenced by the sun&#x2014;just as my blood by my thoughts. &#x2026; The earth I tread on [in winter] is not a dead inert mass. It is a body&#x2014;has a spirit&#x2014;is organic&#x2014;and fluid to the influence of its spirit&#x2014;and to whatever particle of that spirit is in me. &#x2026; Even the solid globe is permeated by the living law. It is the most living of creatures.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Thoreau&#x2019;s sympathies point to a cosmos of universal animation. And if the Earth is seen as animate in itself, what consistent ontology could refrain from accepting something approaching true panpsychism?</p>
<p>A more explicitly panpsychist outlook came from Thoreau&#x2019;s younger contemporary John Muir. Muir developed a profoundly non-anthropocentric philosophy in which all living things possessed the right to self-realization and happiness: &#x201C;Nature&#x2019;s object in making animals and plants might possibly be first of all the happiness of each one of them, not the creation of all for the happiness of one [i.e. man].&#x201D; More than this, he considered the possibility that all objects of nature were in some way sensitive and aware:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Plants are credited with but dim and uncertain sensation, and minerals with positively none at all. But why may not even a mineral arrangement of matter be endowed with sensation of a kind that we in our blind exclusive perfection can have no manner of communication with? (in Teale 1976: 317)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Such musings led Muir to a Franciscan outlook on nature in which &#x201C;every rock-brow and mountain, stream, and lake, and every plant soon come to be regarded as brothers&#x201D; (321).</p>
<p>Not long afterward, Aldo Leopold, &#x201C;the father of environmental ethics,&#x201D; also developed strong sympathies toward panpsychism. Leopold was deeply influenced by the panpsychist Russian philosopher Peter Ouspensky, citing him in an early essay titled &#x201C;Some Fundamentals of Conservation in the Southwest&#x201D; (ca. 1920/1979). Considering &#x201C;conservation as a moral issue,&#x201D; Leopold finds the organismic view of the Earth compelling. In the natural processes of the Earth we see &#x201C;all the visible attributes of a living thing&#x201D; (139). Furthermore, from this standpoint follows &#x201C;that invisible attribute&#x2014;a soul, or consciousness&#x2014;which not only Ouspensky, but many philosophers of all ages, ascribe to all living things and aggregations thereof, including the &#x2018;dead&#x2019; earth.&#x201D; Leopold is clear that such a view can serve as the foundation for an environmental ethic: &#x201C;Philosophy, then, suggests one reason why we cannot destroy the earth with moral impunity; namely, that the &#x2018;dead&#x2019; earth is an organism possessing a certain kind and degree of life, which we intuitively respect as such.&#x201D; (140) This declaration constitutes the first invocation of pan-spirituality as a potential remedy for healing the ecological damage brought on by modern industrial society.</p>
<p>Like Thoreau and Muir before him, Leopold was not an academic philosopher. All three men must be excused for relying more on intuitive insight than formal academic argumentation. But there is no doubt that panpsychist beliefs underlay much of their attitudes toward nature.</p>
<p>A deeper union of philosophy, environmentalism, and panpsychism occurred in the work of Albert Schweitzer, who outlined his views on history, culture, nature, and the problem of religious pessimism in <i>The Philosophy of Civilization</i> (1949). Schweitzer was heavily influenced by Schopenhauer in two respects. First, he adopted Schopenhauer&#x2019;s ontology of all things as manifestations of pure will&#x2014;specifically, the &#x201C;will to live.&#x201D; Second, he inverted Schopenhauer&#x2019;s notorious pessimism, seeing in the will-to-live a profoundly optimistic and altruistic worldview.</p>
<p>Following (like Thoreau and Ouspensky) the ancient Greek conception of life, Schweitzer viewed all things in nature as alive in an extended sense of the word, as manifestations of a dynamic and spiritual cosmos:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The essential nature of the will-to-live is determination to live itself to the full. It carries within it the impulse to realize itself in the highest possible perfection. In the flowering tree, in the strange forms of the medusa, in the blade of grass, in the crystal; everywhere it strives to reach the perfection with which it is endowed. In everything that exists there is at work an imaginative force. (1949: 282)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">From such a worldview derives the ethical imperative of <i>reverence for life</i>: &#x201C;Reverence for life means to be in the grasp of the infinite, inexplicable, forward-urging Will in which all Being is grounded.&#x201D; (283) The universal will to live, which is manifest in humans as reverence for life, is realized in the rest of nature as a kind of elemental, life-affirming force: &#x201C;Nature knows only a blind affirmation of life. The will-to-live which animates natural forces and living beings is concerned to work itself out unhindered.&#x201D; (290)</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Nearly two decades passed before there was a reawakening of the connection between panpsychism and environmental attitudes. In 1967, the historian Lynn White Jr. published an influential and controversial article titled &#x201C;The Historical Roots of our Ecologic Crisis.&#x201D; In assessing the cultural and religious basis for Western attitudes toward nature, White focuses on the inherently alienating aspects of Christianity. In the first place, he argues, it virtually banished spirit from the natural world&#x2014;excepting, of course, the human soul, and then only as a temporary condition. Second, it put humanity at the head of the corporeal hierarchy. Humans were thus established as radically distinct from, and radically superior to, all other earthly things. With nature despiritualized, humanity was free&#x2014;even encouraged&#x2014;to manipulate and exploit nature: &#x201C;By destroying pagan animism, Christianity made it possible to exploit nature in a mood of indifference to the feelings of natural objects. &#x2026; The spirits <i>in</i> natural objects, which formerly had protected nature from man, evaporated.&#x201D; (1967: 1205) It was in this sense that White called Christianity &#x201C;the most anthropocentric religion the world has seen.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Yet White found a potential solution to the environmental crisis even within the Christian tradition&#x2014;not surprisingly, in the radical views of Saint Francis. Francis&#x2019; &#x201C;unique sort of panpsychism&#x201D; (1207) could serve as a spiritual basis for natural reverence: &#x201C;The profoundly religious, but heretical, sense of the primitive Franciscans for the spiritual autonomy of all parts of nature may point a direction.&#x201D; This extends Leopold&#x2019;s suggestion that something like a panpsychist outlook could heal our relationship to the natural world.</p>
<p>White&#x2019;s article had an immediate and considerable influence in environmental and theological circles. A minor uproar ensued, and in a little-known 1973 essay he offered a few further reflections on the original 1967 piece. He observed that the ultimate drivers of social behavior are the base value structures of a given society, especially as reflected in that culture&#x2019;s religion. Religion&#x2014;whether in the overt, classical meaning of the word or in a more subtle, quasi-secular sense&#x2014;embodies society&#x2019;s fundamental values. White reiterated his view that techno-Christian values have led to environmental destruction as a result of a denial of spirituality to the objects of nature. He reaffirmed his idea that a respiritualization of nature is central to resolving the situation: &#x201C;The religious problem [now] is to find a viable equivalent to animism.&#x201D; (1973: 62) He noted that recent advances in science, specifically with respect to an understanding of viruses, have &#x201C;smashed the artificial conceptual frontier between organic and inorganic matter.&#x201D; As before, he observed that such an understanding leads to greater natural reverence. Anticipating debates to follow, he asked &#x201C;Do people have ethical obligations toward rocks?&#x201D; (63) But he recognized the inherent difficulties in even posing such a question:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]oday to almost all Americans &#x2026; the question makes no sense at all. If the time comes when to any considerable group of us such a question is no longer ridiculous, we may be on the verge of a change of value structures that will make possible measures to cope with the growing ecologic crisis. One hopes that there is enough time left.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">It seems that, even now, more than four decades later, we have made little progress on this question.</p>
<p>In early 1970, shortly after the publication of White&#x2019;s original article, Gregory Bateson gave a lecture, later published under the title &#x201C;Form, Substance, and Difference,&#x201D; in which he explicitly located mind in all natural feedback (&#x201C;cybernetic&#x201D;) systems. He furthermore identified mind as the fundamental unit of evolutionary biology: &#x201C;This identity between the unit of mind and the unit of evolutionary survival is of very great importance, not only theoretical, but also ethical. It means, you see, that I now localize something which I am calling &#x2018;Mind&#x2019; immanent in the larger biological system&#x2014;the ecosystem.&#x201D; (1970/1972: 460) The ethical implications of such a panpsychism are, for Bateson, clear. If, he says, you adopt the conventional objectivist materialist view of mind, then &#x201C;you will logically and naturally see yourself as outside and against the things around you. And as you arrogate all mind to yourself, you will see the world around you as mindless and therefore not entitled to moral or ethical consideration. The environment will seem to be yours to exploit.&#x201D; (462) Continue in this objectivist mode too long and &#x201C;your likelihood of survival will be that of a snowball in hell.&#x201D; Later in the lecture Bateson reiterates this theme:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[W]hen you separate mind from the structure in which it is immanent, such as human relationship, the human society, or the ecosystem, you thereby embark, I believe, on fundamental error, which in the end will surely hurt you. &#x2026; You decide that you want to get rid of the by-products of human life and that Lake Erie will be a good place to put them. You forget that the eco-mental system called Lake Erie is a part of <i>your</i> wider eco-mental system&#x2014;and that if Lake Erie is driven insane, its insanity is incorporated in the larger system of <i>your</i> thought and experience. (484&#x2013;485)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The beginning of a cure for such insanity, then, is a recognition and deep appreciation for the mind immanent in the natural world.</p>
<p>A related idea was independently advocated by the lawyer Christopher Stone in an influential 1972 article &#x201C;Should Trees Have Standing?&#x201D; This essay was the first to seriously propose rights for natural objects, and thus to make tangible the concept of intrinsic value. After noting that for more than a hundred years non-human entities such as corporations and nation-states have been granted legal personhood&#x2014;including the ascription of minds and wills&#x2014;Stone proceeds to analyze the status of natural beings. Arguing for a change in consciousness or worldview, he says that we must &#x201C;be able to get away from the view that Nature is a collection useful [but] senseless objects.&#x201D; Even more, &#x201C;we have to give up some psychic investment in our sense of separateness and specialness in the universe&#x201D;&#x2014;such as the notion that we alone are intelligent and enminded. By thinking expansively, we will indeed &#x201C;recognize more and more the ways in which nature &#x2026; is like us&#x201D; (498). He then quotes a passage in which Dane Rudhyar argues that &#x201C;consciousness &#x2026; exists at animal and vegetable levels, and most likely must be latent, or operating in some form, in the molecule and the atom.&#x201D; Noting that &#x201C;all the dominant changes we see about us point in [this] direction,&#x201D; Stone makes his basic position clear: Something like panpsychism is true, and it serves as the ultimate basis for seeing intrinsic value in all natural objects. Panpsychism justifies legal rights for nature.</p>
<p>In 1975 Roderick Nash took up Stone&#x2019;s suggestion that human society must find a way to envision the granting of rights to inanimate nature, even to rocks. In the process, he recounts Leopold&#x2019;s hierarchy of expanding rights that culminated in recognizing the rights of &#x201C;the land&#x201D; itself. Acknowledging that &#x201C;the transition from life to the non-living environment is the most difficult part of ethical evolution,&#x201D; Nash is nonetheless confident that &#x201C;it is possible to conceive of the rights of rocks&#x201D; (1975/1980: 160). Noting that &#x201C;there are several intellectual and emotional roads&#x201D; by which to reach this point, he discusses just two. The first is the Eastern view of a &#x201C;divine spirit which permeates all things, living and non-living.&#x201D; The second, implicitly preferable, is the view that &#x201C;rocks, rightly seen, <i>are</i> alive, hence deserving of the full measure of ethical respect accorded to all life.&#x201D; Nash suggests that the current conception of life is too restricted&#x2014;&#x201C;perhaps there are ranges of life that also transcend our present state of intelligence.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Nash then touches on the practical matter of how we are to act toward inanimate things that have been granted rights, especially given that we are generally in a poor position to assess their wants or needs:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">What, after all, do rocks want? Are their rights violated by quarrying them for a building or crushing them into pavement or shaping one into a statue? &#x2026; For the time being, the only way out may be to assume rocks and everything else want to stay as they are. Living things want to live; rocks want to be rocks. (160&#x2013;161)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">He thus argues for a kind of self-realization of all things in nature, of letting them play their natural role in the ecosystem. But to take this approach seems to require, for him, a panpsychist stance; it is something he calls an &#x201C;essential underpinning&#x201D; of an environmental ethic.</p>
<p>In 1977 Nash explicitly returned to the subject in an article titled &#x201C;Do Rocks Have Rights?&#x201D; Briefly reviewing the history of an expanded moral domain, including the ideas of Leopold, he argues that rocks can fall within the realm of moral regard even without themselves existing as moral beings: &#x201C;Rocks may not be moral beings, but moral beings can attribute rights to them, claim rights for them, and represent them in the quest for such rights.&#x201D; (1977: 8) He then once again discusses several ways in which we can understand the notion of such rights. One is to assume that rocks have intrinsic interests for themselves. There are a number of ways to envision such interests, ranging from Eastern mystical philosophy to indigenous or native worldviews to a straightforward pragmatic approach in which such interests are taken as a &#x201C;convenient fiction.&#x201D; Of the latter point, Nash asks &#x201C;Pragmatically speaking, if it works to produce good results, why not believe it?&#x201D; (10) This is an interesting approach because it suggests, indirectly, a potential new argument for panpsychism: If a belief in the rights, the interests, and even the psyche of rocks will lead to a better world, then it would be in our interest to adopt it. This anticipates what I will later call the Greater Virtue argument; see chapter 10 for an elaboration.</p>
<p>Beginning in 1979, the journal <i>Environmental Ethics</i> published a number of articles addressing such notions as intrinsic value, nonhuman rights, and moral considerability of natural objects. Some of these articles drew from panpsychist theories for their justification. In the first, titled &#x201C;The Rights of the Subhuman World&#x201D; (1979), Hartshorne briefly reiterates his view that &#x201C;every singular active agent [that is, every true individual] &#x2026; resembles an animal in having some initiative or freedom in its activity,&#x201D; and hence each such agent possesses &#x201C;inner aspects of feeling, memory, and expectation&#x201D; (53). Furthermore, &#x201C;where there is feeling there is value in a more than instrumental sense.&#x201D; Thus, all individuals possess intrinsic value, and so are worthy of moral consideration. Yet there is the lingering problem of the Whiteheadian view that certain broad classes of natural entities&#x2014;rocks, plants, mountains, ecosystems&#x2014;are not seen as true individuals, and hence presumably have less moral standing than fully integrated beings such as atoms, cells, and animals&#x2014;and perhaps none at all. The implications of this dichotomy for environmental ethics are still open.</p>
<p>In 1982 the environmental philosopher J. Baird Callicott published an article comparing European and Native American attitudes toward nature. The animist worldview of indigenous Americans is well known, and they have traditionally, though not uncritically, been attributed a deep-seated respect for the natural world; it is obvious to connect the two. Most commentators have described this connection in a dispassionate, third-person manner. But not Callicott. After elaborating something of the Indian view&#x2014;&#x201C;earth, rocks, water, and wind &#x2026; &#x2018;are very much alive&#x2019; &#x2026; . Natural entities &#x2026; have a share in the same consciousness that we human beings enjoy&#x201D; (1982: 300&#x2013;301)&#x2014;he immediately declares his personal endorsement of it:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The Indian attitude &#x2026; was based upon the consideration that since human beings have a physical body <i>and</i> an associated consciousness &#x2026; , all other bodily things, animals, plants, and, yes, even stones, were also similar in this respect. Indeed, this strikes me as an eminently reasonable assumption. &#x2026; The variety of organic forms &#x2026; is continuous with the whole of nature. Virtually all things might be supposed, without the least strain upon credence, like ourselves, to be &#x201C;alive,&#x201D; i.e. conscious, aware, or possessed of spirit. (301&#x2013;302)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">He adds the observation, similar to that of Leopold and Hartshorne, that such a view is conducive to sympathetic approach to nature:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Further, and most importantly for my subsequent remarks, the pervasiveness of spirit in nature, a spirit <i>in everything</i> which is a splinter of the Great Spirit, facilitates a perception of the human and natural realms as unified and akin.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Callicott concludes by endorsing a very strong form of panpsychism, approaching that of traditional animism, in which &#x201C;all features of the environment &#x2026; possessed a consciousness, reason, and volition, no less intense and complete than a human being&#x2019;s&#x201D; (305). Apart from a few comparable remarks by Royce (1898/1915: 230), such a standpoint is unique in Western philosophy.</p>
<p>In 1983 <i>Environmental Ethics</i> published an article by Jay McDaniel titled &#x201C;Physical Matter as Creative and Sentient.&#x201D; Drawing, like Hartshorne, on both Whitehead&#x2019;s process philosophy and ideas in quantum physics, McDaniel argues for a &#x201C;theology of ecology&#x201D; based on a view of ordinary matter as &#x201C;life-like, albeit in an unconscious and primitive way&#x201D; (1983: 292). Much of the article is a reiteration of standard ideas in process theory and quantum physics, but near the end he begins to draw out some ethical implications: &#x201C;[The fact that] a rock exhibits unconscious reality-for-itself means that the rock has intrinsic value, for <i>intrinsic value</i> is nothing else than the reality a given entity has for itself, independent of its reality for the observer.&#x201D; (315) The ethical implications arising from such a view are reflected in the values of &#x201C;reverence&#x201D; and &#x201C;empathy&#x201D;&#x2014;reverence because all things have intrinsic value and thus are worthy of moral consideration, and empathy because all things are, like ourselves, enminded.</p>
<p>Continuing in the same line of argumentation, the philosophers Susan Armstrong-Buck (1986) and James O&#x2019;Brien (1988) sought to ground the concept of intrinsic value in a panpsychist ontology. Armstrong-Buck pursued McDaniel&#x2019;s theme, further exploring Whitehead&#x2019;s ideas in an environmental context. Although she frequently cited his notions of true individuals as &#x201C;experiencers&#x201D; who are creative, self-enjoying, and self-actualizing, she characterized the assertion that Whitehead was a panpsychist as &#x201C;inaccurate.&#x201D; Her hesitation followed from an assumed definition of panpsychism as meaning that all things are conscious. As she read Whitehead, &#x201C;intrinsic value resides only in the experiencing of value.&#x201D; Since all things&#x2014;that is, all true individuals&#x2014;are said to be experiencers, then all possess intrinsic value. Once again, the moral status of compound or aggregate entities is left undecided.</p>
<p>O&#x2019;Brien&#x2014;adopting the perspective of that other great twentieth-century panpsychist metaphysician, Teilhard&#x2014;spelled out similar conclusions. Embracing Teilhard&#x2019;s panpsychist worldview, O&#x2019;Brien recounts the thesis that &#x201C;consciousness exists at all levels in hierarchical degrees&#x201D; (1988: 332). This is presented as a central reason why all natural objects are &#x201C;good in themselves&#x201D; and thus worthy of moral consideration. As in the case of the followers of Whitehead, this is more of an interpretation rather than a direct reading of original works.</p>
<p>In a 1986 lecture that was published in 1991 as &#x201C;Are There Intrinsic Values in Nature?&#x201D; Tim Sprigge repeated the view that panpsychism is a basis&#x2014;in fact, the &#x201C;only basis&#x201D;&#x2014;for intrinsic value in nature. He claims that &#x201C;there cannot be intrinsic value where there is nothing at all akin to pleasure and pain, joy and suffering&#x201D; (1991a: 41). Nature, he says, is intimately bound up with mind. This can only be realized either by means of a Berkelian idealism (which he dismisses as too implausible) or more reasonably through a Whiteheadian panpsychic view of nature in which &#x201C;the inner &#x2018;noumenal&#x2019; essence of all physical processes consists in streams of interacting feeling.&#x201D; Panpsychic-based intrinsic value, combined with a human-centered aesthetic value, constitutes Sprigge&#x2019;s dual-aspect system of ecological ethics.<a id="FN5a"/><a href="#FN5"><sup>5</sup></a></p>
<p>Also in 1986, something of an ironic twist occurred in a work of analytical philosophy by Martin and Pfeifer, &#x201C;Intentionality and the Non-Psychological.&#x201D; As will be discussed below, the article was to prove relevant to Val Plumwood&#x2019;s biocentric &#x201C;intentional panpsychism&#x201D; of the 1990s. Intentionality, defined as a sense of aboutness or directedness, has been seen by many philosophers, since the work of Brentano in the late nineteenth century, as constituting one of the essential markers of mentality. Will, desire, belief, and knowledge all generally count as intentional qualities. In their essay, Martin and Pfeifer offer up some rather shocking news: Virtually all extant theories of intentionality fail to fundamentally discriminate between humans and natural objects in general, and thus intentionality&#x2014;and hence mind&#x2014;would seem to be omnipresent:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">We will show that the most typical characterizations of intentionality, including &#x2026; Lycan&#x2019;s own suggested characterization and John R. Searle&#x2019;s more extended treatments of the concept all fail to distinguish intentional mental states from non-intentional dispositional physical states. Accepting any of these current accounts will be to take a quick road to panpsychism! (1986: 531).<a id="FN6a"/><a href="#FN6"><sup>6</sup></a></p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Martin and Pfeifer see panpsychism as a reductio ad absurdum and thus conclude that the standard view of intentionality is defective. Their analysis of current theories, though largely technical, centers on the fact that &#x201C;recognition&#x201D; and &#x201C;awareness of satisfaction&#x201D; are required as basic aspects of intentionality. They argue that if a thing meets certain &#x201C;satisfaction conditions&#x201D; resulting from environmental stimuli, &#x201C;then clearly that aspect of awareness of satisfaction conditions is something mindless physical objects are equally capable of&#x201D; (544). Citing the notorious thermostat example, they add that such devices have a &#x201C;causal disposition&#x201D; to act in certain ways once various conditions have been satisfied. Plants also exhibit a similar &#x201C;satisfaction capacity.&#x201D; Consequently, plants and thermostats would, on the conventional reading, have to be conceded intentionality and thus mind.</p>
<p>Recognizing the dreaded conclusion that &#x201C;someone might interpret it as an argument for panpsychism,&#x201D; and noting sarcastically that &#x201C;for some, this may be a happy result,&#x201D; Martin and Pfeifer quickly set out to fix intentionality by redefining the essential role that it plays in truly sentient beings. The degree to which they succeed is debatable, and so the theory of intentionality retains some of the larger panpsychic implications.</p>
<p>One environmental philosopher who did take intentionality as a basis for panpsychism was Val Plumwood. In <i>Feminism and the Mastery of Nature</i> (1993) she devotes a full chapter to critiquing the conventional mind-nature dualism of mechanistic, Cartesian philosophy. Taking issue with the concept of strong panpsychism&#x2014;&#x201C;the thesis that consciousness is fully present everywhere&#x201D; (1993: 133)&#x2014;Plumwood opts for a weaker form, later called &#x201C;intentional panpsychism,&#x201D; in which &#x201C;<i>mindlike</i> qualities&#x201D; are found throughout nature. She adopts a broad conception of intentionality, treating it as an umbrella term that includes such qualities as &#x201C;sentience, choice, consciousness, and goal-directedness&#x201D; (134). So conceived, it applies equally well to objects ranging from humans and other living creatures to natural processes and systems. Employing the Continuity argument, she observes that &#x201C;intentionality is common to all these things, and does not mark off the human, the mental, or even the animate.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Plumwood&#x2019;s intentional panpsychism is centered on the self-realization of all natural things. She cites notions of growth, function, directionality, goal-directedness of a self-maintaining kind, and flourishing as indicative of the teleology of nature:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Mountains, for example, present themselves as the products of a lengthy unfolding natural process, having a certain sort of history and direction. &#x2026; Trees appear as self-directing beings with an overall &#x201C;good&#x201D; or interest and a capacity for individual choice in response to their conditions of life. Forest ecosystems can be seen as wholes whose interrelationship of parts can only be understood in terms of stabilizing and organizing principles, which must again be understood teleologically. (135&#x2013;136)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Such a worldview has a clear bearing on the realm of human ethics:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Human/nature dualism has distorted our view of both human similarity to and human difference from the sphere of nature. &#x2026; When this framework of discontinuity is discarded, we can see [support for a worldview] in which nature can be recognized as akin to the human. &#x2026; We can recognize in the myriad forms of nature other beings&#x2014;earth others&#x2014;whose needs, goals and purposes must, like our own, be acknowledged and respected. (137)</p></blockquote>
<p>Plumwood&#x2019;s thesis came under criticism from John Andrews in a 1998 article published in the journal <i>Environmental Values</i>. Andrews primarily addresses issues tangential to Plumwood&#x2019;s main contention, such as her critique of moral hierarchy, her relatively broad interpretation of intentionality, her discussion of machine intentionality, and her use of the concept of agency. In the end he makes no substantial criticism against either the concept of panpsychism or its use as a basis for environmental ethics. In a footnote, though, he touches on the heart of the matter, the conflict of worldviews:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Where parties to a philosophical dispute disagree over the fundamental intuitive touchstones to which appeal should be made to test the adequacy of a claim, or theory, it becomes difficult to know how to proceed further. &#x2026; I can imagine a stone as mindlike &#x2026; or I can locate myself within a metanarrative that sees all nature as suffused with mindlike qualities&#x2014;but [are these] appropriate to the way the world is or [are they] mere anthropocentric projection? What other way of answering this do we have other than to appeal to the very fundamental intuitive touchstones that are at stake? (1998: 395)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The answer, it would appear, is &#x201C;none.&#x201D; In fact, Andrews&#x2019; use of the phrase &#x201C;the way the world is&#x201D; betrays his own objectivist outlook. To suggest that reality exists in only one way, that there is only one absolute truth to the world, is to adopt a very restricted and almost naive form of realism. The nature of reality has changed countless times in the past, and it will change countless more. Reality is as varied as the sensitivity and subtlety of the mind and the culture that perceives it.</p>
<p>Plumwood (1998) responds ably to Andrews in the same issue of <i>Environmental Values</i>, but she does appear to soften her stance on panpsychism. She re-articulates her &#x201C;thesis that elements of mind (or mindlike qualities) are widespread in nature&#x201D; (400), but she disavows the view that Andrews attributes to her, namely that &#x201C;each natural entity has its own distinctive mindlike properties&#x201D;&#x2014;her concern being with the terms &#x2018;each&#x2019; and &#x2018;own&#x2019;. In a footnote she adds the following:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I would not be happy to say of such items as mountains that they &#x201C;have minds&#x201D; or &#x201C;have mental states,&#x201D; &#x2026; although I am willing to say that mountains express or exhibit elements of mind, or have mind-like qualities. (417)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Most definitively, Plumwood labels as &#x201C;absurd&#x201D; the view &#x201C;that each <i>individual</i> natural entity has its own distinctive kind of mind&#x201D; (400). But it is not at all clear why such a view is absurd. Plumwood gives no arguments, but merely provides an unjustified assertion. Of course, if one were to define mind as something like a fully developed, fully aware, human-like consciousness, few would accept it. But given that there is no consensus on such a definition of mind, there is no <i>a priori</i> reason why it would be absurd. Furthermore, Plumwood is suggesting that perhaps not every individual thing has elements of mind, but then which things have them and which do not? And why? Drawing such distinctions presents major ontological problems. Her theory of intentional panpsychism would seem to require further elaboration before it can be fully evaluated as a theory of mind. Yet her view, even loosely articulated, has value as an ethical theory. As she says, the stance of intentional panpsychism is one of &#x201C;openness to or recognizing the intentionality [or mind-likeness] of the world&#x201D; (403). Accordingly, we must be &#x201C;prepared to recognize the other&#x2019;s intentionality as a necessary condition for developing richer experiential, communicative and ethical frameworks and relationships.&#x201D; Such an attitude can clearly be adopted even in the absence of a fully articulated theory of mind.</p>
<p>Plumwood&#x2019;s subsequent book <i>Environmental Culture</i> (2002) includes two chapters on the aforementioned subject. One of them&#x2014;&#x201C;Towards a Dialogical Interspecies Ethics&#x201D;&#x2014;is largely a reprise of her 1998 article. The other&#x2014;&#x201C;Towards a Materialist Spirituality of Place&#x201D;&#x2014;includes no specific mention of panpsychism but hints at it with talk of nature &#x201C;participating in mindfulness&#x201D; (223), of &#x201C;a fusion of mind and matter&#x201D; (226), and of &#x201C;the world as another agent or player&#x201D; (227).</p>
<p>A more recent articulation of ecological panpsychism occurs in the work of Freya Mathews. In her article &#x201C;The Real, the One and the Many in Ecological Thought&#x201D; (1998) and in her book <i>For Love of Matter</i> (2003), Mathews develops a sympathetic metaphysical system in which all things participate in the Mind of the cosmos. She justly criticizes conventional materialism as being unable to account for the evident reality of the world: &#x201C;the <i>deanimated</i> conception renders <i>realism</i> with respect to the world untenable&#x201D; (2003: 29). She proceeds to adopt a form of panpsychism and then to articulate a metaphysical worldview that follows from it, emphasizing &#x201C;encounter&#x201D; and &#x201C;eros&#x201D; as ways of sympathetically interacting with nature. Mathews&#x2019; work is notable in that it moves beyond mere analysis; she sees both an ecological and axiological imperative in viewing the world from the panpsychist perspective.</p>
<p>The past decade has seen a decline in panpsychist arguments on behalf of nature&#x2014;a somewhat surprising situation in view of the generally increasing visibility of panpsychism. One of the few such pieces is my article &#x201C;Ethics, Eco-Philosophy, and Universal Sympathy&#x201D; (2013), in which I argue that mind in nature is a natural basis for sympathizing with all things. Sentience is typically a justification for ordinary interpersonal (human) sympathy, and the same logic suggests that sentience, awareness, and experientiality in nature should ground an analogous feeling. This in turn lends support to the notion of universal intrinsic value in nature.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S3"/>9.3&#x2003;<a id="d2e494"/>Interdisciplinary and Populist Treatments</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Given the inherently unusual nature of the subject, it is not surprising that panpsychism would begin to appear in less formally philosophical and more populist or interdisciplinary settings. I have generally avoided discussion of such works, but a few are worthy of brief mention, if only because the authors have some academic credentials, because the books serve to promote an awareness of panpsychism within society at large, and because such works tend to reach far more people than works of traditional academic philosophy and thus have a greater influence.</p>
<p>Panpsychism, in the guise of animism, first entered a somewhat popular sphere with the release of Morris Berman&#x2019;s book <i>The Reenchantment of the World</i> (1981). In a rather simplistic depiction of Western civilization, Berman (a historian) argues that a fundamental shift in consciousness occurred around the time of Descartes. Our original mode of interaction&#x2014;&#x201C;participating consciousness,&#x201D; defined roughly as an animistic, holistic, magical way of thinking&#x2014;gave way to a mechanistic, non-participatory mindset. This modern form of consciousness, according to Berman, &#x201C;recognizes no element of mind in the so-called inert objects that surround us.&#x201D; &#x201C;One of the goals of this chapter,&#x201D; he announces, &#x201C;is to demonstrate that it is this attitude, rather than animism, which is misguided&#x201D; (69&#x2013;70). He then recounts how Newton and Descartes succeeded in overthrowing the final remnants of animistic and occultist thinking. Berman claims that participating consciousness reemerged only relatively recently, in the ideas of quantum mechanics: the uncertainty principle, loss of classical determinism, Wheeleresque interactions between observer and observed, and even panpsychist attribution of mind to quantum particles.</p>
<p>The animistic dimension of participation finds support, Berman argues, in the work of the psychologists Carl Jung and Wilhelm Reich, who held that the mind is in the body, not just the brain, and that material objects possess a kind of indwelling unconsciousness. People comprehend with their entire physical being; the brain is merely a &#x201C;thought amplifier&#x201D; that accentuates what the body knows. Reich&#x2019;s work, Berman says, is particularly relevant:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle"><i>Reich supplies that missing link</i> [between animism and participation]. For if the body and the unconscious are the same thing, the permeation of nature by the latter explains why participation still exists, why sensual knowledge is a part of all cognition, and why the admission of this situation is not a return to primitive animism. (180)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Berman concludes with a fairly detailed look at the ideas of Bateson as a viable path to recovery of the &#x201C;alchemical world view.&#x201D; There are in fact some strong elements of panpsychism in Bateson, as was discussed previously in this volume, but Berman alludes to them only indirectly. And he generally neglects the entire philosophical history of panpsychism.</p>
<p>Two populist books touching on panpsychism appeared in 1990. In <i>The Quantum Self</i>, Danah Zohar&#x2019;s overall approach is to use concepts from quantum mechanics to illuminate issues of selfhood, society, consciousness, and religion. In a chapter titled &#x201C;Are Electrons Conscious?&#x201D; she proposes a &#x201C;cautious or limited&#x201D; form of panpsychism based, apparently, on a dual-aspect neutral monism. Recalling ideas from earlier in the twentieth century, she emphasizes that the wave-like nature of quantum particles may be interpreted as mind, and hence &#x201C;the wave/particle duality of quantum &#x2018;stuff&#x2019; becomes the most primary mind/body relationship in the world&#x201D; (80). Yet this fact evidently has no bearing on macro-scale inanimate objects, &#x201C;as there is nothing whatever about modern physics to suggest that mountains have souls or that dust particles possess an inner life&#x201D; (39). This somewhat gratuitous comment seems intended to deflect the standard criticisms of strong panpsychism, and yet it requires Zohar to answer the question of precisely which objects have dual-aspect minds and why. Not surprisingly, she offers no resolution.</p>
<p>The second work of that year was <i>The Rebirth of Nature</i>, by Rupert Sheldrake. A biologist by training, Sheldrake challenges the mechanistic worldview that is at the core of biology by attacking the concept of matter as dead, insentient, and inert. He argues explicitly for a &#x201C;new animism&#x201D; that incorporates a strong version of the Gaia hypothesis: &#x201C;If Gaia is in some sense animate, then she must have something like a soul &#x2026; .&#x201D; (130) He conceives of this soul as the unified field of the planet, aspects of which include the magnetic and gravitational fields that science recognizes. More generally, the planetary soul is a &#x201C;morphic field&#x201D;&#x2014;an entity that organizes, integrates, and coordinates the activities of things in accordance with a preordained teleology.</p>
<p>Morphic fields, Sheldrake writes, are not limited to the Earth; &#x201C;such fields animate organisms at all levels of complexity, from galaxies to giraffes, and from ants to atoms&#x201D; (135). They also allow a kind of communication or resonance with other, similar forms of being&#x2014;whether on the Earth or across the universe. Thus, he sees the cosmos as embracing a teleological synchronicity that unifies and vivifies all things. This is the foundation for his new animism.</p>
<p>As a scientist, Sheldrake seems to recognize that such a view has no direct bearing on scientific inquiry. The effects of this new worldview are to be found exclusively in our relations with the world. He cites three implications:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">First of all, it undermines the [anthropocentric] humanist assumptions on which modern civilization is based. Second, it gives us a new sense of our relationship to the natural world, and a new view of human nature. Third, it makes possible a resacralization of nature. (173)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Thus his unique form of panpsychism focuses on the ethical and axiological benefits in a manner reminiscent of Fechner, though without Fechner&#x2019;s extensive analogical argumentation. Not being a philosopher, Sheldrake doesn&#x2019;t develop much of a systematic philosophy; instead he relies on basic assumptions and interpretations, from a biological standpoint, about the nature of reality.</p>
<p>A few years after the publication of the aforementioned books, Koestler&#x2019;s holon theory was taken up and championed by the transpersonal philosopher Ken Wilber. Wilber adopts the basic hierarchical system of Cardano and Koestler and combines it with elements of Teilhard, Plotinus, Spinoza, process philosophy, and various Eastern philosophers, producing a hybrid ontology that is explicitly panpsychist in the sense that all individuals have an &#x201C;interior&#x201D; (or &#x201C;depth&#x201D; or &#x201C;Emptiness,&#x201D; as Wilber prefers). His system, laid out in detail in his 1995 book <i>Sex, Ecology, Spirituality</i>, envisions reality as a four-part structure in which each holon is at once an individual and a part of a social system and has both an exterior (physical) aspect and an interior (&#x201C;mental,&#x201D; loosely) aspect.<a id="FN7a"/><a href="#FN7"><sup>7</sup></a></p>
<p>As explicit as his system is, Wilber has two concerns about the term &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019;. First, he is worried that most panpsychists ascribe consciousness or some related variant of human experience to all things. His &#x201C;depth&#x201D; is &#x201C;literally <i>unqualifiable</i>&#x201D; (1995: 538), and hence cannot be described in terms relating to our human phenomenology. Sensation, feeling, and even psyche emerge at certain points in the hierarchy of being, and are merely different forms of the more general &#x201C;depth&#x201D;: &#x201C;I am a pan-depthist, not a pan-psychist, since the psyche itself emerges only at a particular level of depth.&#x201D; Wilber reiterates this idea in <i>Integral Psychology</i>&#x2002;(2000: 276&#x2013;277).</p>
<p>Second, as is the case with the process philosophers, even Wilber&#x2019;s &#x2018;pan&#x2019; is not so extensive as to include literally all physical things. Aggregates, he explains, have no depth:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I agree entirely with Leibniz/Whitehead/Hartshorne/Griffin that only the entities known as compound individuals (i.e. holons) possess a characteristic interior. Holons are different from mere heaps or aggregates, in that the former possess actual wholeness. &#x2026; Heaps [consist of] holons that are accidentally thrown together (e.g. a pile of sand). Holons have agency and interiors, whereas heaps do not. (2000: 279&#x2013;280)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">He goes on to observe that &#x201C;the common panpsychist view &#x2026; is that, for example, rocks have feelings or even souls, which is untenable.&#x201D; Thus&#x2014;apart from misreading the &#x201C;common view&#x201D; of panpsychism&#x2014;Wilber, like Hartshorne, Griffin, and Leibniz, draws the burden of explaining just how and when an interior appears&#x2014;or, for that matter, how a <i>new</i> interior of a brain is created from the union of independent and preexisting interiors of the neurons. Leibniz&#x2019;s dominant monad, or Whitehead&#x2019;s dominant occasion, was never a satisfactory solution, and unfortunately Wilber offers no better explanation.</p>
<p><i>The Spell of the Sensuous</i> (1996) is more a poetic essay than a detailed philosophical inquiry but it presents a widely-cited account of something approaching a panpsychist worldview. David Abram argues from a phenomenological basis for a return to an animistic worldview as a remedy for the radical separation of humanity from nature, a separation resulting from Cartesian and mechanistic philosophies. Abram&#x2019;s objectives are to provoke &#x201C;new thinking&#x201D; among intellectuals and to suggest a new conceptual approach &#x201C;to alleviate our current estrangement from the animate earth&#x201D; (1996: x). He recognizes that panpsychist outlooks in fact have significant potential to alter our philosophical worldview, as they get to the root of the inert-matter view held by mechanists. But he fails to examine its substantial philosophical underpinning. Of all the Western philosophical schools addressing panpsychism, phenomenology&#x2014;at least, as it is found in the writings of its leading advocates&#x2014;is among the least relevant.</p>
<p>Related works have continued to appear in recent years. Graham Harvey&#x2019;s <i>Animism</i> (2005) and <i>Handbook of Contemporary Animism</i> (2015) and Emma Restall Orr&#x2019;s <i>Wakeful World</i> (2012), for example, address panpsychist themes from the perspectives of religion, paganism, and Wiccan philosophy. Peter Ells&#x2019; <i>Panpsychism: The Philosophy of the Sensuous Cosmos</i> (2011) is an engaging and popular philosophical examination. Alex Wendt&#x2019;s <i>Quantum Mind and Social Science</i> (2015) provides a fascinating application of panpsychism and quantum mechanics to social theory, arguing that something like a group or collective mind is at work in society. For a political scientist, Wendt has an excellent grasp of the relevant philosophical issues, and his impressive bibliography demonstrates his breadth of knowledge on the subject. He deserves credit for examining the larger implications of panpsychism, which are almost completely neglected by academic philosophers.</p>
<p>Most recently we have the work of the medical doctor, theoretical biologist, and complexity theorist Stuart Kauffman, who argues for &#x201C;a vast participatory panpsychism&#x201D; based on entangled quantum systems. His book <i>Humanity in a Creative Universe</i> (2016a) and his essay &#x201C;Cosmic Mind?&#x201D; (2016b) defend a strong panpsychism, in the manner of Penrose, Hameroff, and Wheeler, in which quantum measurement, and the subsequent quantum collapse, indicate the presence of mind.</p>
<p>As I have noted, the authors cited above all bring a degree of academic respectability to the discussion. But in recent years the field has also engaged a number of less credentialed writers who have self-published on related topics, particularly animism. Websites and blog posts are particularly popular, though they often lack the careful research and argumentation of the more professional writers. As always, one must be aware of the source. As a general conclusion, it can certainly be stated that there seems to be a growing awareness of and interest in panpsychism, both within academic philosophy and among the public at large. Whether this portends a fundamental shift in outlook remains to be seen.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S4"/>9.4&#x2003;<a id="d2e617"/>Other Thoughts, Pro and Con</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Despite the many sources cited throughout the present work, panpsychism has been, and remains, a decidedly minority view in academia. Philosophical debate on the topic has historically been rare. Its supporters have written defenses, but few have been willing or able to refute them. There was a minor flurry of articles in the early years of the twentieth century, but they had limited effect.<a id="FN8a"/><a href="#FN8"><sup>8</sup></a> The general feeling appears to have been that panpsychism was such a minority view that it could be safely dismissed with a brief comment, or conveniently ignored.</p>
<p>One relatively substantial critique, published in 1922, was Yale philosopher Charles Bennett&#x2019;s review of Perceval Frutiger&#x2019;s book <i>Volonte et Conscience</i>. Frutiger advocated a panpsychist metaphysical system that he called &#x201C;spiritual monism.&#x201D; Bennett (1922: 89) questioned &#x201C;the general value of a theory of panpsychism&#x201D; such as Frutiger proposed, and in doing so touched on the pragmatic and utilitarian worth of any such theory:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Frutiger contends that in a universe so interpreted, morality and religion can breathe more freely; but he has overlooked a most serious objection. The value of &#x2026; &#x201C;dead matter&#x201D; surrounding us is that it gives us a world indefinitely plastic, indefinitely usable. &#x2026; Put me in a world where all is in some sense (however obscure) spirit, &#x2026; and you embarrass me strangely. Now I no longer feel free to treat any part of the material world merely as means. The coal for the furnace, the stone that goes into our houses, the steel that goes into our machines&#x2014;these are now, after some mysterious fashion, my own kith and kin. I must treat them differently now. But how? To that question the panpsychist gives no answer&#x2014;in which case I have been robbed of a vitally important conception of matter; or else he defines the amount of freedom and spontaneity in the material world so that it is always less than the amount required to make any practical difference &#x2026; .</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Two points stand out here. First, Bennett assumes that panpsychism must have some tangible, practical consequence to be meaningful&#x2014;something that is arguably untrue. He is looking for mechanistic implications, when it is just such a mechanistic mindset that panpsychism is challenging. He gives no credence to it simply as a metaphysical theory of mind. Second, he inadvertently touches on what we may call the ecological issue: Panpsychism strongly implies a revaluation of the natural world. In that sense, it does in fact have meaningful implications in the sphere of human action, though they are not entailed by it. A new-found sensitivity, respect, and empathy toward natural things have been, for many philosophers, natural corollaries to the panpsychist view. Bennett complains that he may no longer employ the stuff of nature as mere means to human ends&#x2014;which of course is exactly the point. In the pre-environmentalism era of the 1920s, crude anthropocentrism clearly was the philosophical order of the day.</p>
<p>In the 1950s, Wittgenstein gave short shrift to the view. In the posthumously published <i>Philosophical Investigations</i> he asked &#x201C;Can anyone imagine a stone&#x2019;s having consciousness?&#x201D; From an analytical perspective, &#x201C;such image-mongery is of no interest to us&#x201D; (1953: 119). But apart from such incidental comments, panpsychism went largely undebated in the first half of the twentieth century.<a id="FN9a"/><a href="#FN9"><sup>9</sup></a></p>
<p>The relative silence of critics was broken in 1967 with the initial publication of the <i>Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>.<a id="FN10a"/><a href="#FN10"><sup>10</sup></a> The general editor, Paul Edwards, had assigned himself to write the putatively objective entry on panpsychism. In one of the more astounding examples of biased writing in modern philosophy, Edwards ridicules the topic at every turn. He portrays panpsychist philosophers as fools, charlatans, or mystics incapable of grasping even the most basic elements of common sense. He calls panpsychism &#x201C;unintelligible&#x201D; and a &#x201C;meaningless doctrine.&#x201D; He makes ludicrous arguments centered on &#x201C;the &#x2018;inner&#x2019; nature of a tennis ball.&#x201D; Sneering at any supposed consequences of the view&#x2014;&#x201C;Is a bricklayer who has been converted to panpsychism going to lay bricks more efficiently?&#x201D; (1967b/1972: 30)&#x2014;he likens panpsychism&#x2019;s adherents to religious fanatics. He gratuitously allows that it may be useful &#x201C;in a pedagogical sense, [to] help school children to understand what a chemist is talking about.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Hartshorne (1990: 393) called Edwards&#x2019; piece &#x201C;astonishingly biased&#x201D; and &#x201C;only trivially informative.&#x201D; Griffin (1998: 96) declared it &#x201C;irresponsible&#x201D; and took Edwards to task for virtually ignoring the process view of Whitehead and Hartshorne. Unfortunately for intellectual integrity, Edwards&#x2019; article served as the official view on panpsychism for more than 30 years, until the 1998 release of the <i>Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy</i>.<a id="FN11a"/><a href="#FN11"><sup>11</sup></a> As bad as Edwards&#x2019; piece was, it did serve, until recently, as a nominally useful starting point for studies of the field (although it mentioned fewer than half of the relevant philosophers, and distorted the views of those it did mention), and it did present one of the first detailed sets of arguments against panpsychism. Perhaps most significantly, it succeeded in establishing the official stance: Panpsychism was to be slandered and abused at every opportunity. Typical was the view of Madden and Hare (1971); in their discussion of James&#x2019; theory of causality, they referred to panpsychism as &#x201C;an unmitigated disaster in the eyes of a great many contemporary philosophers&#x201D; (23). Popper took a similar line shortly thereafter, denouncing the view as &#x201C;fantastic&#x201D; and &#x201C;baseless&#x201D; (1977: 69, 71).</p>
<p>Even environmental philosophers found reason to be critical. Arne Naess, for one, was unimpressed with a Spinozan form of panpsychism: &#x201C;The range of predicates such as &#x2018;virtuous&#x2019; or &#x2018;in harmony with what is rational&#x2019; cannot meaningfully be applied to the beings of the mineral kingdom.&#x201D; (1975: 119) Naess found a compatriot in Ernest Partridge, who was quite dismissive of environmentalists tempted by a &#x201C;primitive belief&#x201D; in panpsychism. Preferring the derogatory synonym &#x2018;animism&#x2019;, he writes:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Believing that nature is alive and sentient, the animist may presume that a cliff &#x201C;objects&#x201D; to being reduced to paving stones, or that a tree &#x201C;objects&#x201D; to being cut into cordwood. I do not recommend this defense; since few of us believe that rocks or trees have nervous systems or comparable sensory receptors, we are unlikely to be convinced that they are capable of &#x201C;caring&#x201D; about their fate. (1984: 105)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Of course, Partridge completely overlooks the fact that nervous systems or sensory receptors are in no way prerequisites for experientiality or subjectivity. He simply presumes this to be true.</p>
<p>In the 1980s and the 1990s, inconsequential and tendentious criticisms continued to appear in the literature. In the midst of a critical analysis of dualism, Geoffrey Madell remarked that</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">the sense that the mental and the physical are just inexplicably and gratuitously slapped together is hardly allayed by adopting either a panpsychist or a double aspect view of the mind, for neither view has any explanation to offer as to why or how mental properties cohere with physical. (1988: 3)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">It is true that most panpsychists take mind as a brute fact of existence. But all metaphysical theories accept certain things as brute; why this counts against panpsychism is unclear.</p>
<p>Gerald Edelman (1992: 212) briefly cites panpsychism as the &#x201C;most extreme form&#x201D; of attempts to &#x201C;make mind and consciousness direct properties of matter.&#x201D; After noting, somewhat patronizingly, that &#x201C;some very intelligent people have been attracted to panpsychism,&#x201D; he is able to cite only William Butler Yeats, of all people, as an example. This whole approach to mind, for Edelman, is &#x201C;spooky and mystical.&#x201D; It has no value for a rigorous scientific thinker: &#x201C;Most good physicists are hardly committed to notions of panpsychism.&#x201D;</p>
<p>The psychologist Nicholas Humphrey occasionally dabbles in philosophy of mind, and he too is quick to dismiss panpsychism. It is &#x201C;one of those superficially attractive ideas that crumble to nothing as soon as they are asked to do any sort of explanatory work&#x201D; (1992: 203). Minds are linked to bodies, he says, and bodies need boundaries.<a id="FN12a"/><a href="#FN12"><sup>12</sup></a> Things like force fields, rainbows, snow storms, and swarms of bees are nebulous and diffuse, and thus are intrinsically incapable of mind. Consciousness, furthermore, is tied to self-interest; thus, &#x201C;we can rule out icebergs or rubber balls or pocket watches or the moon&#x201D; because they do not care what happens to them. Mind, Humphrey asserts without evidence, is &#x201C;limited to higher vertebrates such as mammals and birds, although not necessarily all of these&#x201D; (205). He is aware of the demand that, within a strictly materialist worldview, consciousness must, at some point, have suddenly and dramatically arisen from an utterly unminded material substrate. Panpsychists, as we saw, view this putative event as an inexplicable miracle. But Humphrey, unfazed, says confidently that &#x201C;consciousness quite suddenly emerged&#x201D; at some unknown point in evolutionary history. Indeed, he is willing to designate the time before that monumental event as &#x201C;BC,&#x201D; meaning &#x201C;before consciousness.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Colin McGinn has repeatedly disparaged panpsychism. He has called it &#x201C;metaphysically and scientifically outrageous&#x201D; and then asked &#x201C;Are we to suppose that rocks actually have thoughts and feelings?&#x201D; (1997: 34). Elsewhere he has mocked the idea that consciousness is omnipresent by comparing it to the claim that &#x201C;Elvis is everywhere&#x201D; (1999: 95) and has asserted that panpsychism entails that &#x201C;electrons and stars &#x2026; literally feel pain, see yellow, think about dinner.&#x201D; It is &#x201C;very hard to take &#x2026; the theory seriously,&#x201D; he has stated, precisely because &#x201C;it is empty.&#x201D; More recently McGinn has declared the panpsychist view &#x201C;a complete myth, a comforting piece of utter balderdash&#x201D; (2006: 93), adding: &#x201C;Isn&#x2019;t there something vaguely hippyish, i.e. stoned, about the doctrine?&#x201D; To his credit, he has also articulated some precise counter-arguments; I examine them in chapter 10.</p>
<p>Another critic is Daniel Hutto (2000: 79), who calls Russell&#x2019;s implicit panpsychism &#x201C;overly liberal.&#x201D; The thought that &#x201C;pails of water heated by the sun might be having experiences &#x2026; is a recognized embarrassment.&#x201D; Panpsychism is &#x201C;neither attractive nor credible&#x201D;; rather, it is &#x201C;awkward&#x201D; and even &#x201C;bizarre.&#x201D; William Lycan (2011: 363) suggests that panpsychism is &#x201C;ludicrous&#x201D; because it implies that &#x201C;a molybdenum atom has either sensory experiences or intentional states.&#x201D; After all, what might it be thinking? &#x201C;Perhaps it wishes it were a silver atom.&#x201D;</p>
<p>John Searle is another prominent foe. Like many others, he prefers to issue blanket condemnations rather than reasoned critiques. In 1997 he famously called panpsychism &#x201C;absurd&#x201D; and &#x201C;breathtakingly implausible&#x201D; (48), adding that &#x201C;there is not the slightest reason to adopt panpsychism&#x201D; (50). Unrepentant, Searle repeated the same thought some years later, asserting that &#x201C;consciousness cannot be spread across the universe like a thin veneer of jam&#x201D; (2013) as if that were the view of current panpsychists. One cannot call the view false, he says; in fact, &#x201C;it does not even get up to the level of being false. It is strictly speaking meaningless.&#x201D; Clearly Searle has no understanding of the long history of the subject he is criticizing. The level of ignorance displayed by even prominent philosophers can be striking.</p>
<p>Perhaps the most telling statement, though, came from Nicholas Humphrey in 2011. Unhappy with a critical review of his new book by the noted panpsychist Galen Strawson, Humphrey issued this little diatribe in an online forum:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Strawson has not so far responded to my invitation to retract his review of my book. But it&#x2019;s clear from messages I&#x2019;ve received from colleagues in philosophy that they see him as an embarrassment to their profession: not only an intellectual ass but unscholarly and lazy too. His ideas about panpsychism have made him a laughing stock. His attacks on attempts to resolve the problem of consciousness as a scientific issue&#x2014;such as mine&#x2014;consign him to the nursery.<a id="FN13a"/><a href="#FN13"><sup>13</sup></a></p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Well! Clearly we need no longer bother with the topic!</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Despite this occasional hostility toward panpsychist theories over the past few decades, a few hardy individuals have continued to offer sympathetic treatments. One of them is Tim Sprigge. In 1983 he published <i>Vindication of Absolute Idealism</i>, arguing somewhat obtusely for an idealist form of panpsychism. He has been one of the few recent philosophers to regularly and sympathetically address panpsychism (see his 1984, 1991a, 1991b, 1998a pieces), but overall his theory seems not to have engaged discussion to the degree that, for example, the traditional process view has. On the negative side, his theory may be seen as perpetuating the mistaken view that panpsychism is necessarily a form of idealism.</p>
<p>Of greater consequence has been the work of the prominent analytic philosopher Thomas Nagel. His 1979 book <i>Mortal Questions</i> includes a chapter entitled &#x201C;Panpsychism&#x201D; in which he writes that &#x201C;panpsychism appears to follow from a few simple premises, each of which is more plausible than its denial&#x201D; (181). The premises he cites are these:</p><ul class="none">
<li>(1) physical reality consists solely of rearrangeable particles of matter</li>
<li>(2) mental states are neither reducible to, nor entailed by, physical states</li>
<li>(3) mental states are real</li>
<li>(4) there are no truly emergent properties.</li></ul>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In effect, this is a more sophisticated version of the Non-Emergence argument. It constitutes perhaps the first formally analytic argument on behalf of panpsychism, and the first in at least a hundred years to arrive at it deductively. Most of the prominent positions of the twentieth century, including those of Whitehead and Teilhard, were based on initial, radical metaphysical conjectures rather than commonly accepted premises.</p>
<p>Following Feigl and Koestler, and despite the force of his own argument, Nagel equivocates. On the one hand he finds the four premises individually compelling. However, after some discussion he concludes &#x201C;I &#x2026; believe that panpsychism should be added to the current list of mutually incompatible and hopelessly unacceptable solutions to the mind-body problem.&#x201D; (193) And yet at the end of the chapter he suggests that a form of panpsychism in which the &#x201C;[material] components out of which a point of view is constructed would not in themselves have to have points of view&#x201D; (194) might be viable. In other words, atoms may somehow carry with them &#x201C;proto-mental properties&#x201D; which, though not mental, combine to create experience and points of view&#x2014;a kind of atomistic parallelism that recalls Clifford&#x2019;s mind-stuff theory. Nagel thus leaves the door open, but offers no positive theory as to how proto-mental panpsychism might be realized.</p>
<p>Nagel continued to be sympathetic to panpsychism in <i>The View from Nowhere</i> (1986), though without significantly developing his ideas. In that book he notes in the introduction that &#x201C;the general basis of this [mental] aspect of reality is not local, but must be presumed to inhere in the general constituents of the universe and the laws that govern them&#x201D; (8). In a nod to the philosophical viability of such an &#x201C;extreme&#x201D; notion as panpsychism, Nagel remarks that &#x201C;nothing but radical speculation gives us a hope of coming up with any candidates for the truth&#x201D; (10) about mind and body. He advocates a neutral monist, dual-aspect theory of mind that is necessarily close to the panpsychist view. In a short section titled &#x201C;Panpsychism and Mental Unity&#x201D; he acknowledges this affinity but then adds that the combination problem&#x2014;the problem of accounting for mental unity&#x2014;is a major concern. He leaves it at that.</p>
<p>Nagel addresses the topic a third time in <i>Concealment and Exposure</i> (2002). That book includes the essay &#x201C;The Psychophysical Nexus,&#x201D; in which he argues for the irreducibility of consciousness. After rejecting both substance dualism and property dualism, Nagel explores alternative solutions that would account for the &#x201C;necessary connection&#x201D; between mind and body. His preferred solution&#x2014;a kind of non-reductive, dual-aspect neutral monism&#x2014;again appears amenable to a panpsychist interpretation. He notes similarities to the work of Spinoza and Russell, observing that the latter &#x201C;holds that physics contains nothing incompatible with the possibility that all physical events, in brains or not, have an intrinsic nature of the same general type&#x201D; (2002: 209). Near the end of the essay Nagel tackles the sticky issue of how far down, below the level of the brain, one might be able to push this dual mind-matter relation. He notes that the brain must consist of numerous conscious subsystems that somehow combine to form the complex, unified whole, and that, because of this fact, we are logically compelled to consider pushing the mind-matter duality down to the lowest levels of matter:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]he active brain is the scene of a system of subpersonal processes that combine to constitute both its total behavioral and its phenomenological character. &#x2026; This differs from traditional functionalism &#x2026; in that the &#x201C;realization&#x201D; here envisioned is not to be merely physiological but in some sense mental all the way down &#x2026; . (230)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">But he declines to elaborate:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I leave aside the question of how far down these states might go. Perhaps they are emergent, relative to the properties of atoms or molecules. If so, this view would imply that what emerges are states that are in themselves necessarily both physical and mental. &#x2026; If, on the other hand, they are not emergent, this view would imply that the fundamental constituents of the world, out of which everything is composed, are neither physical nor mental but something more basic. (231)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This might appear suggestive of panpsychism, but Nagel immediately denies the possibility: &#x201C;This position is not equivalent to panpsychism. Panpsychism is, in effect, dualism all the way down. This is monism all the way down.&#x201D; Yet it is clear that there are many forms of dual-aspect monism that are panpsychist, and thus simply labeling panpsychism as &#x201C;dualism&#x201D; doesn&#x2019;t negate the possibility that Nagel&#x2019;s own system could consistently be conceived as a form of panpsychism. The most that he will allow is that all matter may have &#x201C;mental potentialities&#x201D; that are &#x201C;completely inert in all but very special circumstances&#x201D; (234). Whether the concept of &#x201C;universal inert mental potentiality&#x201D; qualifies as a form of panpsychism is open to debate.</p>
<p>Finally, in <i>Mind and Cosmos</i> (2012), Nagel suggests that we should re-conceive our basic metaphysical assumptions. Perhaps experientiality and the corresponding subjectivity do not emerge, but are intrinsic parts of reality. Perhaps all of reality is experiential in some sense. &#x201C;Perhaps,&#x201D; he writes, &#x201C;the basis for this identity [of the mental and the physical] pervades the world.&#x201D; (42) Indeed, a complete explanation of reality &#x201C;may have to be something more than physical all the way down&#x201D; (53). Again showing no awareness of its lengthy philosophical pedigree, Nagel cautiously sneaks up on panpsychism, tentatively suggesting that it has promise. &#x201C;So this reductive [monist] account can also be described as a form of panpsychism: all the elements of the physical world are also mental.&#x201D; (57) Unfortunately, he continues to vacillate on the subject:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Without something unimaginably more systematic in the way of a reduction, panpsychism does not provide a new, more basic resting place in the search for intelligibility. &#x2026; It offers only the form of an explanation without any content, and therefore doesn&#x2019;t seem to be much of an advance on the emergent alternative. (62)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">But he immediately adds that &#x201C;the proposal is not empty,&#x201D; because it is amenable to naturalistic reductive options that have proved successful in the past. &#x201C;On the other hand,&#x201D; he states a few lines later, &#x201C;the idea of reducing the mind to elementary mental events or particles seems unnatural in a way that physical atomism doesn&#x2019;t.&#x201D; One can be excused for not knowing where Nagel comes down on this issue.</p>
<p>A related issue then arises: Are there any outward signs of the inner mental life of inanimate structures? Nagel thinks there would have to be. Just as the mental lives of humans correlate with behavioral action, &#x201C;something analogous must be true at the micro level&#x201D; (63) if panpsychism is true. Thus, &#x201C;the protomental will have behavior implications.&#x201D; This presumption is debatable, but we have some recent evidence of such behavioral implications: an attribution of free will to quantum action in the work of Conway and Kochen (2006, 2009). Dyson and Bohm, as was explained above, also offered interpretations that suggest at least some basis for the &#x201C;behavioral implications&#x201D; that Nagel calls for. The case for behavioral evidence is stronger than Nagel suspects.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S5"/>9.5&#x2003;<a id="d2e819"/>Dynamical Systems Theory</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In the 1890s, Peirce observed that cellular protoplasm was remarkably sensitive to external stimulation, and speculated that this sensitivity was related to mental states, feelings, and perhaps even consciousness<a id="FN14a"/><a href="#FN14"><sup>14</sup></a>: &#x201C;Feeling may be supposed to exist, wherever a nerve-cell is in an excited condition.&#x201D; (1891/1992: 292) In his five <i>Monist</i> essays, Peirce repeatedly examines the dynamical nature of physical systems and the general issue of chance, randomness, and predictability in the universe. He notes that, in a formally mechanistic universe, all future events could be determined by knowing &#x201C;the positions and velocities of the particles at any one instant&#x201D; (1892a/1992: 309). But feeling, consciousness, and mind have an innate spontaneity that circumvent any such predictability, and thus &#x201C;necessitarianism&#x201D; cannot be true. A corresponding theory&#x2014;tychism&#x2014;must hold.</p>
<p>The sensitivity of protoplasm is important because it is &#x201C;nothing but a chemical compound&#x201D; (1892c/1992: 347); highly sensitive to stimulation, it thus has a correspondingly large degree of feeling. But all matter is sensitive to a degree, and therefore the most likely inference is that all matter feels in proportion to its degree of sensitivity. In fact, in &#x201C;Man&#x2019;s Glassy Essence&#x201D; Peirce anticipates some of the central features of dynamical systems and what would later be called chaos theory:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">If, then, we suppose that matter never does obey its ideal laws with absolute precision, but that there are almost insensible fortuitous departures from regularity, these will produce, in general, equally minute effects. But protoplasm is in an excessively unstable condition; and it is the characteristic of unstable equilibrium that near that point excessively minute causes may produce startlingly large effects. &#x2026; Now, this breaking up of habit and renewed fortuitous spontaneity will, according to the law of mind, be accompanied by an intensification of feeling. The nerve-protoplasm is, without doubt, in the most unstable condition of any kind of matter; and consequently there the resulting feeling is the most manifest. (348)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">His conclusion is that &#x201C;wherever chance-spontaneity is found, there, in the same proportion, feeling exists.&#x201D; And that is everywhere. Peirce thus initiates a new argument for panpsychism, based on the universal sensitivity of matter to external stimulation. Stimulated response, he says, he always accompanied by a degree of feeling. In chapter 6, I called this the Argument from Dynamic Sensitivity.</p>
<p>Theories about dynamical systems were, of course, very primitive in Peirce&#x2019;s time. Henri Poincar&#x00E9; was just conducting his work on the three-body gravitational problem that suggested chaotic dynamics, but Pierce had no knowledge of this. And it would be decades before mathematical theory would develop to the point that chaos theory would become an established discipline. Nonetheless, Peirce&#x2019;s intuition was significant: that mind or consciousness was something intrinsically unpredictable, and that wherever unpredictability was found, there we must also see the presence of mind.</p>
<p>Present-day chaos theory is often described as deterministic, which means that a given system is governed by ordinary non-linear differential equations but yet its evolution over time is inherently unpredictable. This occurs because such a system is highly sensitive to small changes in its environment. Weather is a classic example: Owing to the non-linear dynamics involved with temperature, pressure, humidity, and solar heating, there are fundamental limitations on our ability to precisely predict the weather in the future. Biological systems, from cells up to brains, are also non-linear dynamical systems. Their changes in state over time cannot be predicted in detail. Most generally, all physical systems are subject to non-linear dynamics; this is self-evidently true, given that the fundamental forces of nature&#x2014;gravity, strong, weak, and electromagnetic&#x2014;are all non-linear. As such, all physical objects and systems are subject to chaotic dynamics. They are all sensitive, at some level, to small environmental changes.<a id="FN15a"/><a href="#FN15"><sup>15</sup></a></p>
<p>Peirce simply speculated that dynamic sensitivity was correlated with mind. But in fact the argument is stronger than he could have known. Chaos theory describes neural system dynamics in a way that offers a satisfying account of many aspects of the mind, including the unity of consciousness, the nature of qualia, and the concept of the personality. This all suggests that chaotic dynamics are a marker for mental processes.</p>
<p>I was one of the first (after Peirce) to make a connection between dynamical systems concepts and the ubiquity of the mind. In a talk given in 1993 (published in 1994 as &#x201C;Participatory Chaos: An Analytic Model of Consciousness&#x201D;), I argued that chaotic dynamics were a key to understanding the human mind, and that they implied a natural extension of the mind to all systems in nature. Independently following the approach of Churchland (1986), I proposed that the brain be viewed as a single interconnected feedback system that is describable by a classical mathematical technique known as state-space (or phase-space) analysis. One particular aspect of this analysis has proved particularly useful: The state of any system, at any moment in time, can be depicted as a single point in a multi-dimensional state space. As the physical system changes, the point moves in state space. Thus any dynamical system, no matter how complex, can be depicted in its entirety by the movement of a single point in a multi-dimensional mathematical space. This is an established scientific tool, and it is employed in a number of technical areas.<a id="FN16a"/><a href="#FN16"><sup>16</sup></a></p>
<p>In the case of the brain, I proposed&#x2014;as did Churchland (1997)&#x2014;that the synapse voltage serves as the primary element in defining the state space, and that it captures essential energy dynamics at a level appropriate for grasping something of the mind-brain relationship. The physical brain state is thus defined as the instantaneous, simultaneous value of all synapse voltages. These myriad voltages are represented by a single point in state space, which depicts the dynamically changing states of the brain. As the neural voltages change in real time, the state-space point moves correspondingly through a multi-dimensional space.</p>
<p>I then conjectured that this point be associated with the &#x201C;unity point&#x201D; of consciousness. This leads to a number of striking correlations between state-space dynamics&#x2014;in particular, the nature of the so-called strange attractor&#x2014;and common-sense notions about the behavior of mind. For example, it helps to explain how the processes of mind can be unpredictable in detail and yet demonstrate long-term stability&#x2014;as shown in the notion of personality. It suggests a novel reading of the notion of causality between mind and brain.<a id="FN17a"/><a href="#FN17"><sup>17</sup></a> It offers one of the first concrete definitions of qualia: Different regions of state space would correspond to different qualitative experiences. In the end, it provides a reasonable accounting for both &#x201C;mental unities&#x2019;: that of our instantaneous unified conscious experience and that of our singular, quasi-stable personality. More important for the present study, it naturally leads to a system of panpsychism. Since all physical systems are describable in terms of the motion of a point in state space, and if this point is to be interpreted as the consciousness or mental unity of the system, then clearly all physical systems&#x2014;i.e., all real objects and collections of objects&#x2014;possess a mind in an analogical sense. Mind is thus viewed as existing in a parallel, non-physical mental space&#x2014;described in terms of state space&#x2014;that is proportional in size and complexity to that of the corresponding physical system. This conception, in turn, suggests a new reading of the dynamics of the mind, one that is compatible with panpsychism.</p>
<p>I am suggesting, in other words, that the state space of physical systems be reinterpreted as a &#x201C;mind space&#x201D; in which specific regions correspond to specific qualia or experiential states. As a system or an object changes its physical state, so too does it, in parallel, change its mental state&#x2014;as indicated by the state-space point. All physical changes have corresponding mental changes. This is not a causal relationship, but simply a parallel evolution through time.</p>
<p>Another facet of the situation is that of the unity of the object in question. Objecthood, or systemhood, is clearly an ambiguous concept. And yet the state-space (&#x201C;mind&#x201D;) point is always distinct. This suggest that all objects and systems, no matter how diffuse, still possess a unitary point of consciousness. And it implies that myriad levels of mind overlap with one another in a simultaneous but non-interfering manner. This has far-reaching implications for our conception of the mind.</p>
<p>To take a concrete example, consider a small piece of sandstone consisting of millions of grains of sand held together by a silica-based cement. It appears to us as a single object because the grains are held tightly together in a persistent state, relatively unchanged. We may then make a state-space analysis that corresponds to the force particles (photons) exchanged between the grains of sand.<a id="FN18a"/><a href="#FN18"><sup>18</sup></a> The grains are held continuously in place, and strongly so, and therefore there must be an ongoing and high degree of exchange of photons at the atomic level. The rushing exchange of billions of inter-grain photons maps over to state (mind) space as a single point: the mind of the stone. But owing to the high stability of the relationship between the grains (they scarcely move at all, relative to one another) the state-space point is confined to a very small region. But it does move somewhat, as a result of changes in temperature of the stone, sunlight or rain falling on it, someone touching it, and so on. The stone experiences different qualitative states, different qualia, depending on the environmental conditions it is subject to.</p>
<p>Now take the same number of grains of sand, but form them into a loose pile on a tabletop. As the pile sits there, unmoving, the grains again exchange photons&#x2014;but this time, far fewer, and far less energetically, given that the grains are just sitting on one another and not tightly fused together with silica. In the corresponding state/mind space, there exists another single point&#x2014;the mind of the heap. But this mind is much simpler than the stone&#x2019;s: lower in dimension and less energetic, owing to the different photon exchange. We might say that the pile is less &#x201C;conscious&#x201D; or less &#x201C;aware&#x201D; than the stone, even though both have the same number of particles and roughly the same mass.</p>
<p>Next, gently vibrate the table. The pile will slowly diffuse as the grains spread out. Continue vibrating until no grains are in direct physical contact. We no longer have a pile, but we do still have a &#x201C;system&#x201D; of grains. Therefore we still have a mind-space point. But now it is much less intense than even with the pile. The grains exchange few photons&#x2014;perhaps mostly infrared energy, owing to their temperature&#x2014;and none that correspond to direct physical pressure. The mind of the system is simpler, less intense, and of lower dimensionality than that of the heap or that of the stone.</p>
<p>Finally, scatter the grains across the room. Now we see no heap, no &#x201C;system,&#x201D; perhaps not even a single grain. And yet the system still exists; the grains still interact, albeit at an extremely low level&#x2014;if only via incredibly weak graviton exchange. And if the system exists, so too does its corresponding state-space point. The mind of such a system exists, even if at a very low level, and even if subsumed by myriad other mental systems in the vicinity.</p>
<p>Under such a view&#x2014;which I call hylonoism&#x2014;the physical universe has a vast, hierarchical system of minds that exists simultaneously in a parallel mental space. On this view, all systems or objects are enminded, and all participate in countless other systemic minds. The physical universe, which is a vast, interconnected network of energy, has a corresponding <i>mental</i> universe, which is a vast, interconnected network of minds or mental states. Although such a &#x201C;pan-relational&#x201D; scheme may seem counterintuitive, in fact it aligns with many historical conceptions of mind and panpsychism, and it promises to resolve many open issues of the mind. (For an elaboration, see Skrbina 2009b.)</p>
<p>Another recent connection between dynamical systems and panpsychism was made by Neil Theise and Menas Kafatos. In their articles &#x201C;Sentience Everywhere&#x201D; (2013) and &#x201C;Fundamental Awareness&#x201D; (2016) they argue that complex systems, in interacting with the world and processing information, experience the world in a mental sense, which Theise and Kafatos call sentience or awareness. Since complexity theory applies uniformly at all levels of material existence, this suggests that a complexity-based awareness exists throughout the universe. In the 2013 article, they state that &#x201C;a complexity approach shifts autopoetic theory from an emergentist to a panpsychist position, and shows that sentience must be inherent in all structures of existence across all levels of scale&#x201D; (2013: 378). In the 2016 essay, they change the terminology somewhat, arguing that &#x201C;a monistic, non-dual field of pure awareness&#x201D; is at the base of physical reality. They suggest that three guiding principles&#x2014;complementarity, process, and recusion&#x2014;operate at all levels of existence, accounting for the hierarchical (or holarchic) structure of the material world. They add that &#x201C;leading panpsychist approaches&#x201D; (such as Hameroff&#x2019;s) &#x201C;may likewise be seen as specifications of processes and mechanisms within the overall framework of Fundamental Awareness.&#x201D;</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S6"/>9.6&#x2003;<a id="d2e909"/>Recent Developments in Process Philosophy</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">An important development occurred in 1988 with the publication of <i>The Reenchantment of Science</i>, David Ray Griffin&#x2019;s compilation of articles on &#x201C;constructive postmodernism&#x201D; in science. Griffin himself contributed two of the more significant entries: &#x201C;Introduction: The Reenchantment of Science&#x201D; and &#x201C;Of Minds and Molecules.&#x201D; The former presents a series of arguments showing that the modernist ontologies of materialism and dualism are both unintelligible and that they have led to the disenchantment of both science and the natural world. The latter article offers up the concept of panexperientialism as a new postmodern paradigm. Some years later, Griffin published another significant article&#x2014;&#x201C;Panexperientialist Physicalism and the Mind-Body Problem&#x201D; (1997)&#x2014;and then a major milestone in panpsychist philosophy: the 1998 book <i>Unsnarling the World-Knot</i>.</p>
<p>In <i>Unsnarling the World-Knot</i>, Griffin gives a full and scholarly exposition of the process view of panexperientialism. Along the way he provides a detailed critique of both materialism and dualism, observing that panpsychist approaches have the potential to resolve a number of otherwise intractable problems. Even though the emphasis throughout is on process philosophy, much of Griffin&#x2019;s analysis applies to panpsychism generally. As the first book-length treatment of panpsychism, <i>Unsnarling the World-Knot</i> is a significant event in the history of the subject.</p>
<p>Following Leibniz, Whitehead, and Hartshorne, Griffin offers an updated reading of the process theory of mind and its panpsychist implications, with a focus on the meaning of the compound individual and the nature of freedom. &#x2018;Compound individual&#x2019;, a term coined by Hartshorne, refers to an &#x201C;organism containing organisms&#x201D; (1936/1972: 54)&#x2014;that is, a sentient individual composed of lower-order individuals such as cells, molecules, atoms, and at the lowest level, &#x201C;occasions of experience.&#x201D; This, of course, recalls the issue of aggregates, as elaborated in the previous discussions on Leibniz and Hartshorne. As we saw, the earlier aggregationists had to make unsatisfying metaphysical assertions to account for the restricted appearance of the dominant monad and its unifying power. Griffin attempts to further illuminate the matter, though with arguable success. Ultimately he runs up against the aggregationists&#x2019; double bind: (1) How do low-order experiences sum up, in certain select objects, to form a single, complex, high-order experience (i.e., the combination problem)? (2) What is ontologically unique about mere aggregates that differentiates them from true individuals?</p>
<p>First take the combination problem: On the process view, occasions begin in a subjective or experiential mode, exist for a short period of time, and then pass away into an objective state. The objective mode is, in turn, the ground or basis for the next moment of subjectivity. Somehow, one (or one series) of these occasions becomes dominant and serves as the integrator of the other sub-experiences. This dominant experience is taken as the consciousness or mind of the person. Specifically, Griffin relates the mind to the experiences of the neurons:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The brain at any moment is composed of billions of neuronic occasions of experience, whereas our conscious experience at any moment belongs to a &#x201C;dominant&#x201D; occasion of experience, which is a new higher-level &#x201C;one&#x201D; that is created out of the &#x201C;many&#x201D; neuronic experiences &#x2026; . (1998: 179)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The unification occurs only after the neuronal occasions are completed and exist in their objective state of being. Then the dominant experience comes along and unifies the many objective modes into a single high-level moment of conscious experience. It is, Griffin says, &#x201C;only in the objective mode that they are a &#x2018;many becoming one&#x2019;&#x201D; (180). The whole process is repeated endlessly, at very short time intervals: neuronic experiences, becoming objective modes, becoming unified by a dominant experience into a single conscious moment.<a id="FN19a"/><a href="#FN19"><sup>19</sup></a> The string of conscious moments accounts for our colloquial &#x201C;stream of consciousness.&#x201D;</p>
<p>We don&#x2019;t know much about this dominant experience, other than that it, unlike the Leibnizian monads, is subject to causal influence. It is both caused by the antecedent objective modes of the neurons and causal on them in its power to unify. This two-way causality between the dominant experience (or mind) and the sub-experiences of the brain is the basis for Griffin&#x2019;s interpretation of freedom. And yet we don&#x2019;t have much in the way of theoretical explanation about how or why this happens. The originator of this idea, Whitehead, provided little definitive elaboration.</p>
<p>Then there is the second and more problematic part of the bind: Why don&#x2019;t all collections of occasions have unified experiences? From a theoretical basis there appears to be no clear reason why only certain systems come to possess a dominant experience. Griffin implies that there is no theoretical basis for determining this <i>a priori</i>. Following Hartshorne, he believes that it is strictly an &#x201C;empirical question&#x201D; (186). Apparently this distinction between aggregates and true individuals, which Griffin describes as &#x201C;crucial,&#x201D; is simply a brute fact of existence. And yet nothing of importance seems to turn on that fact. What if all aggregates possessed dominant experiences? What if the nature of this dominant experience was determined by the nature and dynamics of the aggregate&#x2014;by such factors as the complexity of its hierarchy, the speed at which it interacted, and the quantity of internal sub-experiences? Would we think less of our own minds, or of the theory itself? Again, this whole distinction seems entirely too <i>ad hoc</i>; it comes off as a convenient way to deny mind to things that &#x201C;obviously&#x201D; do not have it. If there is no theoretical basis for denying this power of unification to all aggregates (and there is nothing in Leibniz or Whitehead that indicates so), then it would seem most reasonable to accept the full implications of the theory.</p>
<p>In the end, Griffin does an outstanding job of elaborating the traditional process theory of mind and the general case for panexperientialism, though he is bound by the inherent limitations of that view. More broadly he succeeds in presenting the case for panpsychism with respect to materialism and Cartesian dualism, capturing many aspects of the contemporary debate.</p>
<p>Following the appearance of Griffin&#x2019;s book were two other notable works: Christian De Quincey&#x2019;s <i>Radical Nature</i> (2002) and David Clarke&#x2019;s <i>Panpsychism and the Religious Attitude</i> (2003).<a id="FN20a"/><a href="#FN20"><sup>20</sup></a></p>
<p>De Quincey gives a concise reading of panpsychism throughout history, relating it at many points to the insights of Whitehead and Hartshorne. <i>Radical Nature</i> tackles many issues relating to the origins of the panpsychist worldview, and gives the most readable and thorough accounting of it since Paulsen&#x2019;s <i>History of Philosophy</i> (1892). It offers an effective overview of the phenomenon of panpsychism in the West.</p>
<p>Clarke, by contrast, presents an abbreviated overview of the concept of panpsychism and seeks to identify it as &#x201C;the most plausible justification that can be given of religious belief in the eternality of mentality&#x201D; (2003: 6). Taking a hard Whiteheadian line, Clarke denies the intelligibility of non-process forms of panpsychism, virtually relegating them to non-existence; he claims, unjustifiably, that &#x201C;the principal figures in the panpsychist tradition have been careful to exclude such aggregate objects as planets, rocks, and artifacts&#x201D; (3). In view of his very cursory treatment of all panpsychists before Leibniz and his quick leap to the twentieth-century figures of the process school, Clarke&#x2019;s statement is perhaps to be expected.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S7"/>9.7&#x2003;<a id="d2e993"/>Galen Strawson</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Among recent developments in philosophy of mind, and in attitudes toward panpsychism in particular, surely the most significant event has been the public endorsement of the panpsychist view by the prominent analytic philosopher Galen Strawson. The evolution in his thinking, culminating in a landmark 2006 essay, is a remarkable story; it has altered the entire philosophical landscape on the subject at hand.</p>
<p>Strawson took tentative first steps toward panpsychism as early as 1994, when he argued in the book <i>Mental Reality</i> that to be a &#x201C;real&#x201D; materialist one must accept that &#x201C;at least some experiential properties [are] fundamental physical properties, like electric charge&#x201D; (60). This would place mind or experientiality as one of perhaps several fundamental qualities of matter. But precisely where it would be manifest was left unstated, and in any case such a view is far from panpsychism. At the time, Strawson was rather unsympathetic to it, seeing it as a rather desperate move that was potentially justified only because of the inherent difficulties in understanding the nature of conscious experience. He allowed that one version of panpsychism (&#x201C;experience-realizing&#x201D;), in which material reality is primary to experiential reality, &#x201C;seems coherent enough&#x201D; (76), but evidently not enough so to warrant further discussion.</p>
<p>Strawson further developed his argument in his essay &#x201C;Real Materialism&#x201D; (2003a). Real materialism&#x2014;the view that every real, concrete phenomenon is physical&#x2014;demands, obviously, that experience, consciousness, and mind also be physical. This, after all, is common sense, unless one is an eliminativist about the mind. Therefore, on the standard view, there exist both <i>experiential</i> physical being and <i>non-experiential</i> physical being. In fact, physics assumes that nearly all of material reality is non-experiential. But, as Strawson points out, that is purely an assumption; indeed, &#x201C;we have no good reason to believe [it]&#x201D; (70). At bottom, we do not know that there is <i>any</i> non-experiential being. The only reality that we know&#x2014;our own minds&#x2014;is purely and entirely experiential. This we know for certain. Anything beyond it is pure conjecture. Be that as it may, such a philosophical inquiry should be undertaken, Strawson adds, &#x201C;with a respectful attitude to panpsychism&#x201D; (75). Once again, highly suggestive but something less than an endorsement. The same sentiment appeared in another essay published in the same year. In a revealing footnote, Strawson writes:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">If some form of panpsychism is, as I think, the most plausible, parsimonious, &#x201C;hard-nosed&#x201D; option for materialists, the way now lies open for a spectacular <i>Aufhebung</i> (makeover, takeover) of Dennett&#x2019;s apparently reductionist, consciousness-denying account of consciousness as &#x201C;just&#x201D; &#x201C;cerebral celebrity&#x201D; or &#x201C;fame in the brain&#x201D; into a fully realist, genuinely consciousness-affirming account of consciousness. This, however, is a story for another time. (2003b: 313)</p></blockquote>
<p>&#x201C;Another time&#x201D; would come in 2006, with the publication of the essay &#x201C;Realistic Monism: Why Physicalism Entails Panpsychism.&#x201D;<a id="FN21a"/><a href="#FN21"><sup>21</sup></a> In that remarkable essay, Strawson finally elaborates on the panpsychist implications of his real materialism. Now preferring the term &#x2018;physicalism&#x2019; to &#x2018;materialism&#x2019;, he reiterates his view that everything concrete is physical, and that experience&#x2014;at least in the human case&#x2014;is an intrinsic aspect of physicality. If everything possesses this dual-aspect nature, then a version of panpsychism must obtain:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">If everything that concretely exists is intrinsically experience-involving, well, that is what the physical turns out to be; it is what energy (another name for physical stuff) turns out to be. This view does not stand out as particularly strange against the background of present-day science, and is in no way incompatible with it. (2006a: 8)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In other words, &#x201C;it&#x2019;s already time to admit that in my understanding real physicalism doesn&#x2019;t even rule out panpsychism&#x2014;which I take to be the view that the existence of every real concrete thing involves experiential being even if it also involves non-experiential being.&#x201D; Strawson immediately clarifies his position in the strongest of terms: &#x201C;something akin to panpsychism is not merely one possible form of realistic physicalism, real physicalism, but the only possible form, and, hence, the only possible form of physicalism <i>tout court</i>&#x201D; (9).</p>
<p>The central argument for such a panpsychist physicalism lies in the inconceivability of the emergence of mind. Strawson reminds us that most physicalists are emergentists who hold that physical matter is wholly and utterly non-experiential. But they also believe that experience is a real, concrete, physical phenomenon. In other words, they hold that the physical phenomenon of mind emerged, in a brute sense, from some non-mental yet still physical stuff. For Strawson that view is sheer nonsense:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I think that it is very, very hard to understand what [this kind of emergence] is supposed to involve. I think that it is incoherent, in fact, and that this general way of talking of emergence has acquired an air of plausibility (or at least possibility) for some simply because it has been appealed to many times in the face of a seeming mystery. (12)</p></blockquote>
<p>Strawson&#x2019;s anti-emergence argument recalls that of Nagel (1979), but with an emphasis on the supposed dependency of the mental on the physical. If mind emerges from the non-mental physical, it must do so under a condition of &#x201C;total dependence.&#x201D; This condition of dependency, combined with the assumption of a completely physical universe, entails that mind must be an intrinsic quality of the physical. The physical must be, at least, proto-experiential, in which case it has in fact a mental aspect&#x2014;and hence, panpsychism is true. Any &#x201C;radical kind&#x201D; emergence of mind is impossible because it is inconceivable. &#x201C;Emergence cannot be brute,&#x201D; because &#x201C;brutality rules out nothing&#x201D; (18&#x2013;19). Reminiscent of the remark by Sewall Wright quoted in chapter 8 above, Strawson observes that any supposed brute emergence is in fact &#x201C;not emergence at all, it is magic&#x201D; (21).</p>
<p>Addressing the conventional physicalist philosopher who holds that the universe is almost entirely composed of non-experiential matter, Strawson asks:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Why on earth commit oneself to [a non-experiential reality]? Why insist that physical stuff in itself, in its basic nature, is essentially non-experiential, thereby taking on (a) a commitment to something &#x2026; for which there is <i>absolutely no evidence whatever</i>, along with (b) the wholly unnecessary (and incoherent) burden of brute emergence, otherwise known as magic?</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">For Strawson, a panpsychist worldview clearly involves a conceptual leap&#x2014;a leap he is at last prepared to make:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">So now I can say that physicalism, i.e. real physicalism, entails panexperientialism or panpsychism. All physical stuff is energy, in one form or another, and all energy, I trow, is an experience-involving phenomenon. This sounded crazy to me for a long time, but I am quite used to it now that I know that there is no alternative short of &#x201C;substance dualism,&#x201D; a view for which (as Arnauld saw) there has never been any good argument. Real physicalism, realistic physicalism, entails panpsychism, and whatever problems are raised by this fact are problems a real physicalist must face. (25&#x2013;26)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Among the more serious concerns is the combination problem. &#x201C;In general, we will have to wonder how macroexperientiality arises from microexperientiality.&#x201D; (26) He defers on an answer, but he clearly suggests that this is neither fatal nor insurmountable. </p>
<p>The same issue of the <i>Journal of Consciousness Studies</i> that contains &#x201C;Realistic Monism&#x201D; also includes a substantial follow-up essay&#x2014;more than three times the length of the lead article&#x2014;in which Strawson adds considerable detail to his argument, responds to critics, and defends a view he calls &#x201C;equal-status fundamental-duality (ESFD) monism.&#x201D; It is a sort of dual-aspectism in which &#x201C;all reality is experiential and all reality is non-experiential&#x201D; (2006b: 241). Such a view &#x201C;is the only option short of pure panpsychism [in which &#x2018;all being is experiential being&#x2019;] and radical eliminativism.&#x201D; Later in the piece Strawson sketches out a theory of the subject (or &#x201C;sesmet&#x201D;)<a id="FN22a"/><a href="#FN22"><sup>22</sup></a> and addresses the question of causality; notably, he argues that under the condition of panpsychism &#x201C;the causal effect of anything on anything will have an experiential aspect, [and] will indeed be experiential&#x201D; (260). For those concerned that all such talk &#x201C;seems like uncontrolled speculation,&#x201D; he adds that &#x201C;a hard (and genuinely naturalistic) nose for reality obliges one to endorse some sort of panpsychism long before any wild speculation has taken place&#x201D; (262). Panpsychism is rational, naturalistic, compatible with physics, and fully coherent with our direct experience of the world. All in all, a remarkable pair of essays.</p>
<p>Strawson has continued to comment on panpsychism, though usually as a corollary to other topics. For example, his essay &#x201C;Nietzsche&#x2019;s Metaphysics&#x201D; (2015b) touches on Nietzsche&#x2019;s probable endorsement of panpsychism. More significant is a short postscript at the end of &#x201C;Real Materialism&#x201D; (2015a) in which Strawson modifies his view of 2006, now preferring the pure panpsychist option: &#x201C;With Eddington, Whitehead, and others, I think that pure panpsychism / panexperientialism is on balance the most plausible form of materialism, the most scientifically &#x2018;hard-nosed,&#x2019; theoretically elegant, theoretically parsimonious form of materialism.&#x201D; (202) Adopting something of a &#x201C;Russellian&#x201D; stance (see below), Strawson notes that physics addresses mass and energy only extrinsically. On his view, energy has an intrinsic nature that is &#x201C;wholly a matter of experientiality,&#x201D; and is completely independent of the extrinsic reality described by science. There is no clash between panpsychism and physics.</p>
<p>The postscript to &#x201C;Real Materialism&#x201D; closes with a strikingly powerful statement: that panpsychism should be the <i>default view</i> in metaphysics, and that it is the non-panpsychist theories that bear the burden of proof, should one wish to defend them. &#x201C;Even if one can&#x2019;t go all the way [to pure panpsychism],&#x201D; Strawson writes, &#x201C;one should, I believe, endorse the thesis of the <i>theoretical primacy of panpsychism</i>.&#x201D; In other words, &#x201C;unprejudiced consideration &#x2026; obliges us to favor some version of panpsychism &#x2026; over all other positive substantive theories&#x201D; of mind. Most notable is the strong form of this primacy:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]he thesis is not just that it would take extraordinarily hard work to justify preferring any substantive metaphysical position that isn&#x2019;t panpsychist. &#x2026; It&#x2019;s rather that it can&#x2019;t be done. It can&#x2019;t be done because it requires that one assume the existence of things whose existence one has no reason to assume. &#x2026; [T]here is no evidence&#x2014;there is precisely zero evidence&#x2014;for the existence of non-experiential reality. Nor can there ever be any. (2015a: 203&#x2013;204)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The ordinary physicalist stance is that there exists (almost exclusively) non-experiential reality. But this standpoint &#x201C;confers no theoretical advantages at all, and &#x2026; creates some extremely severe&#x2014;arguably insurmountable&#x2014;theoretical difficulties.&#x201D; No truly rational thinker would knowingly place himself in such a situation.</p>
<p>The implications of Strawson&#x2019;s words are clear: Not only is panpsychism not &#x201C;absurd,&#x201D; &#x201C;crackpot,&#x201D; or &#x201C;a laughing stock,&#x201D; but it is the most rational, most compelling, and most logical approach to the mind. To hold any other view is to adopt unsupportable assumptions, to believe in sheer magic, or to maintain an anti-rationalist, quasi-religious faith in non-experiential reality. One could hardly make a stronger endorsement.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S8"/>9.8&#x2003;<a id="d2e1111"/>Russellian Monism</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">In the 1920s, Bertrand Russell made an important&#x2014;though not original&#x2014;observation about the physical world: that we know it only in an abstract, theoretical, and &#x201C;external&#x201D; manner. We can describe forces and motions mathematically, and we have certain scientific devices that give us readings or measurements about physical events. We can, in other words, know the structural content of the material world. But that&#x2019;s all. What matter and energy are in themselves, intrinsically, escapes us. &#x201C;Physics is mathematical, not because we know so much about the physical world, but because we know so little: it is only its mathematical properties that we can discover. For the rest, our knowledge is negative.&#x201D; (1927b: 125) But extrinsic knowledge is incomplete, because material reality must have a deeper, intrinsic nature to it; it cannot be simply relation, structure, and function.</p>
<p>There are some entities in the physical world, however, that we do know intrinsically: our own minds and their corresponding mental states. These things we know directly and immediately, simply by experiencing them. Correspondingly, there is little or nothing &#x201C;objective&#x201D; or measureable about our qualitative mental states. Our minds seem to be utterly nonmathematical, nonstructural. This is a striking and revealing contrast.</p>
<p>Thus stated, we have little more than an updated form of Cartesian dualism: of a <i>res extensa</i> and a <i>res cogitans</i>. But Russell ultimately went one step further, positing that some form of monism was true. A monistic world presents us with an important metaphysical question: What is the relationship between the physical world, which we know only structurally and extrinsically, and the mental world, which we know only qualitatively and intrinsically? Generally speaking, there seems to be three main possibilities: that the intrinsic are more fundamental and thus ground the extrinsic, that the extrinsic are fundamental and ground the intrinsic, and that something else grounds both the extrinsic and intrinsic. These three positions yield, respectively, idealism, physicalism, and neutral monism.</p>
<p>I won&#x2019;t recount the evolution of Russell&#x2019;s thought here, but he generally defended a neutral monist position in which &#x201C;sensations&#x201D; or &#x201C;percepts&#x201D; were the underlying stuff of reality. This is problematic, of course, because either term seems to be mental, and thus not really neutral after all. In any case, the net result, as I explained in chapter 7, was arguably a form of panpsychism&#x2014;or at least a strong sympathy with it.</p>
<p>During the past two decades or so, philosophers have taken to referring the system broadly sketched out above as &#x201C;Russellian monism.&#x201D; Here I roughly define this as the view that (1) we have only structural, extrinsic knowledge about the physical world at large, (2) our mental states are uniquely known intrinsically, (3) there exists a deeper, monistic basis of both physical and mental reality, and (4) this ultimate basis is either mental or proto-mental in nature. This is not a consensus view, and it seems that every philosopher conceives of Russellian monism in a slightly different way.<a id="FN23a"/><a href="#FN23"><sup>23</sup></a> Stubenberg (2015: 63) refers to the &#x201C;astonishing flexibility&#x201D; of the concept, given that it conceivably encompasses monism, dualism, physicalism, idealism, neutral monism, and panpsychism.</p>
<p>Beyond this, there is the notable fact that &#x201C;Russellian monism&#x201D; is neither truly Russellian (meaning a position that Russell himself held) nor, strictly speaking, a monism. Russell&#x2019;s own view evolved, and it appears that at no time did he explicitly advocate the fourth point listed above. In fact, &#x201C;Russellian monism&#x201D; is <i>doubly</i> non-Russellian: If we accept that we generally name things after their originators, we notice that a number of individuals held to something like Russellian monism before Russell himself did. As was noted in chapter 8 above, Eddington (1920: 200) wrote that physics is &#x201C;knowledge of structural form, and not knowledge of content&#x201D; and that &#x201C;all through the physical world runs that unknown content, which must surely be the stuff of our consciousness&#x201D;&#x2014;a statement arguably more Russellian than anything Russell himself ever wrote. Nietzsche had similar intuitions. &#x201C;The triumphant concept of force,&#x201D; he wrote, &#x201C;needs supplementing: it must be ascribed an inner world which I call &#x2018;will to power.&#x2019;&#x2026; One must understand all motion, all &#x2018;appearances,&#x2019; all &#x2018;laws&#x2019; as mere symptoms of inner events &#x2026; .&#x201D;<a id="FN24a"/><a href="#FN24"><sup>24</sup></a> Nietzsche also spoke of the &#x201C;mechanistic senselessness of all that happens&#x201D; without an inner will or motive force at the center of things.<a id="FN25a"/><a href="#FN25"><sup>25</sup></a></p>
<p>But the premier anticipator of Russellian monism was surely Arthur Schopenhauer. He was the first to understand that science could only ever grasp the external, spatio-temporal characteristics of matter, and that something &#x201C;intrinsic&#x201D;&#x2014;something non-physical&#x2014;had to constitute the inner essence of things:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[Y]ou think you know a dead matter, that is, one that is completely passive and devoid of properties, because you imagine you really understand everything that you are able to reduce to a <i>mechanical</i> effect. But physical and chemical effects are admittedly incomprehensible to you so long as you are unable to reduce them to <i>mechanical</i>. In precisely the same way, these <i>mechanical</i> effects themselves, and thus the manifestations that result from gravity, impenetrability, cohesion, hardness, rigidity, elasticity, fluidity, and so on, are just as mysterious as are those others, in fact as is thinking in the human head. &#x2026;</p>
<p>That which is really intelligible in mechanics &#x2026; does not go beyond the purely mathematical in every explanation and is, therefore, restricted to determinations of space and time. Now these two, together with their whole conformity to law, are known to us <i>a priori</i>; and so they are mere forms of our knowing and belong solely to our representations or mental pictures. Their determinations are, therefore, at bottom subjective and do not concern the purely objective, that which is independent of our knowledge, the thing-in-itself. But as soon as we go, even in mechanics, beyond the purely mathematical; as soon as we come to impenetrability, gravity, rigidity, fluidity, or the gaseous state, we are already face to face with manifestations that to us are just as mysterious as are thinking and willing in man; and thus we are confronted with that which is directly unfathomable; for every force of nature is such.</p>
<p>And so where is that <i>matter</i> of yours which you know and understand so intimately that you try to explain everything from it and to refer everything to it? It is always only the mathematical that is clearly comprehensible and wholly explicable because it is that which is rooted in the subject, in our own representation apparatus.</p>
<p>But as soon as something really objective appears, something not determinable <i>a priori</i>, then, in the last resort, it too is at once unfathomable. What is perceived generally by our senses and understanding is a wholly superficial phenomenon that leaves untouched the true and inner essence of things. &#x2026;</p>
<p>Consequently, with the objective apprehension of the corporeal world, the intellect from its own resources furnishes all the forms of this world, namely time, space, and causality&#x2014;and with this also the concept of matter, which is thought in the abstract and is devoid of properties and form and, as such, cannot possibly occur in experience. But as soon as the intellect, by means of and in these forms, notices a real intrinsic property (coming always only from the sensation of the senses), that is to say, something which is independent of its own forms of knowledge and manifests itself not in <i>activity in general</i> but in a definite mode of acting, then it is this that the intellect supposes to be body, that is to say, to be formed and specifically determined matter&#x2014;such matter thus appearing as something independent of the forms of the intellect, that is, as something absolutely objective. &#x2026;</p>
<p>All the natural sciences labor under the inevitable disadvantage of comprehending nature exclusively from the <i>objective</i> side and of being indifferent to the <i>subjective</i>. (1851/1974, volume 2: 105&#x2013;107)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">For Schopenhauer, of course, the inner essence is something mental&#x2014;the will. Thus he can state that &#x201C;matter is the mere visibility of the will.&#x201D; Were present-day philosophers true to their own history, they would call the view at hand &#x201C;Schopenhauerian monism&#x201D;&#x2014;a bit awkward, but more accurate.</p>
<p>In past decades a number of philosophers&#x2014;among them Feigl (1958), Foster (1982), Maxwell (1978), and Lockwood (1989)&#x2014;have emphasized something like Russellian monism. But the explicit connection to panpsychism was first spelled out by David Chalmers. In his 1995 article &#x201C;Facing Up to the Problem of Consciousness&#x201D; Chalmers offers an outline of a nonreductive, dual-aspect theory of mind based on a Batesonian reading of the concept of information. Broadly interpreted, he argues that information consists of any change in a physical system, and would thus appear to be omnipresent (&#x201C;information is everywhere&#x201D;). &#x201C;An obvious question,&#x201D; he adds, &#x201C;is whether <i>all</i> information has a phenomenal [i.e. mental] aspect.&#x201D; (217) The answer, he implies, is Yes. Without mentioning panpsychism by name, he cautiously suggests that &#x201C;experience is much more widespread than we might have believed.&#x201D; The panpsychist conclusion is &#x201C;counterintuitive at first, but on reflection &#x2026; the position gains a certain plausibility and elegance.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Chalmers significantly elaborated his theory in his 1996 book <i>The Conscious Mind</i>, though he retains his ambivalence toward panpsychism. He dedicates several pages (293&#x2013;301) to the question &#x201C;Is experience ubiquitous?&#x201D; His approach is focused on the ancient Continuity argument; he observes that &#x201C;there does not seem to be much reason to suppose that phenomenology should wink out&#x201D; (294) as one descends the ladder of physical complexity, concluding that it is reasonable to assign experience and even consciousness to a simple feedback system such as a thermostat. He correctly notes that there are no knockdown arguments against this view: &#x201C;Someone who finds it &#x2018;crazy&#x2019; to suppose that a thermostat might have experiences at least owes us an account of just <i>why</i> it is crazy.&#x201D; (295) As to even simpler physical systems, like rocks and electrons, Chalmers allows that &#x201C;if there is experience associated with thermostats, there is probably experience <i>everywhere</i>&#x201D; (297).</p>
<p>Following in the footsteps of Feigl, Koestler, and Nagel, Chalmers seesaws between endorsing a panpsychist view and hedging his bets. He seems unsure how to label the inner nature of simple physical objects: &#x201C;I would not quite say that a rock <i>has experiences</i>, or that a rock <i>is conscious</i>. &#x2026; It may be better to say that a rock <i>contains</i> systems that are conscious: presumably there are many such subsystems.&#x201D; &#x2018;Mind&#x2019; is not the right word either. He further notes that he &#x201C;[does] not generally use&#x201D; the term &#x2018;panpsychism&#x2019;, chiefly because that view (he claims) typically implies a system in which simple and fundamental experiences are summed together to form more complex, higher-level experiences.<a id="FN26a"/><a href="#FN26"><sup>26</sup></a> &#x201C;With these caveats noted,&#x201D; Chalmers writes,</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">it is probably fair to say that the view is a variety of panpsychism. I should note, however, that panpsychism is not at the metaphysical foundation of my view. &#x2026; Panpsychism is simply one way that [things] might work. &#x2026; Panpsychism is just one way of working out the <i>details</i>.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Panpsychism is &#x201C;surprisingly satisfying,&#x201D; but its viability &#x201C;seems to be very much open.&#x201D; It is a position that Chalmers seems to advocate (340), but he is &#x201C;unsure whether the view is true or false&#x201D; (357). Yet on any objective reading of the dual-aspect information theory it seems inevitable. In just what <i>other</i> ways, one is tempted to ask, might one reasonably work out the details?<a id="FN27a"/><a href="#FN27"><sup>27</sup></a></p>
<p>Into the 2000s, discussion on the topic continued unabated. Holman (2008) examines the connection between the Russellian view and panpsychism, though he is not optimistic that the former can be meaningfully cast in terms of the latter. Alter and Nagasawa (2012) offer a detailed look at the subject, comparing and contrasting different variations. Goff (2014) touches on Russellian monism in the course of an assessment of the compatibility of panpsychism with property dualism. And most recently we have the anthology by Alter and Nagasawa, <i>Consciousness in the Physical World</i> (2015), which offers a variety of views on the Russellian stance; a number of the pieces, including Stubenberg 2015, Rosenberg 2015, Chalmers 2015, and Kind 2015, examine the panpsychist implications.</p>
<p>Panpsychism is a distinctive metaphysical worldview. As such, it stands in an awkward relationship with conventional positivist, mechanistic thinking. It can seem inconsequential, or even incomprehensible. And yet these are the very hallmarks of new worldviews; anything less would imply a superficial or minor revision to the prevailing view. Panpsychism offers a fundamental challenge to emergentism and mechanism. And, as many have noted, the problems of mind and consciousness are so difficult, so intractable, that &#x201C;drastic actions&#x201D;&#x2014;perhaps even as drastic as panpsychism&#x2014;are warranted.</p>
<p>The final step, then, is to consider as a whole the arguments for and against panpsychism, assessing each in light of a deeper sensitivity to the nature of metaphysical worldviews. We may then begin to see, and better appreciate, the broader implications of the panpsychic view.</p>
<section>
<h2>Notes</h2>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN1"/><span><a href="#FN1a">1.</a></span> The other main issues, not exclusive to the identity theory, are the meanings of such notoriously vague terms as &#x2018;physical&#x2019; and &#x2018;mental&#x2019;. Feigl spends considerable time examining these particular matters.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN2"/><span><a href="#FN2a">2.</a></span> Feigl also notes that, under the appropriate definition, &#x201C;there is no doubt that certain types of robots or computers do think&#x201D; (423).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN3"/><span><a href="#FN3a">3.</a></span> Though the inclusion of teleology is surprising. Claims of goal-directedness in inanimate systems are generally excluded by conventional science. Natural teleology may be, rather, a complement to a panpsychist metaphysics.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN4"/><span><a href="#FN4a">4.</a></span> Globus 1976: 320.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN5"/><span><a href="#FN5a">5.</a></span> This argument is reiterated in Sprigge 1991b.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN6"/><span><a href="#FN6a">6.</a></span> No doubt both Lycan and Searle were dismayed to hear of this conclusion.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN7"/><span><a href="#FN7a">7.</a></span> For all of Wilber&#x2019;s impressive citation, <i>Sex, Ecology, Spirituality</i> is very light on citing his main predecessors. Cardano appears nowhere, nor does Spinoza, whose dual-aspect panpsychism has much in common. Even Koestler merits only a few brief mentions&#x2014;surprising, insofar as one of Wilber&#x2019;s central concepts comes from <i>The Ghost in the Machine.</i></aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN8"/><span><a href="#FN8a">8.</a></span> See Bakewell 1904a,b; Bawden 1904; Strong 1904a,b; Prince 1904.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN9"/><span><a href="#FN9a">9.</a></span> One finds a number of scattered references to panpsychism throughout the past 100 years, though most have had little impact. If we survey the field through the 1960s we find such pieces as Salter 1922, Bush 1925, Robinson 1949, Sellars 1960, and Francoeur 1961. In the latter half of the century, we find Bjelland 1982, Kerr-Lawson 1984, and Sharpe 1989. However, not until the advent of consciousness studies, in the 1990s, did panpsychism begin to attract wider attention.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN10"/><span><a href="#FN10a">10.</a></span> The final and more widely available edition was published in 1972, but with the identical entry on panpsychism from 1967.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN11"/><span><a href="#FN11a">11.</a></span> The new entry, written by the panpsychist Timothy Sprigge, is more sympathetic and more balanced, though unfortunately less thorough.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN12"/><span><a href="#FN12a">12.</a></span> The question of the boundedness of subjects is indeed an important open issue. For one treatment of the topic, and the potential panpsychist implications, see Skrbina 2009b.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN13"/><span><a href="#FN13a">13.</a></span> This public statement, originally issued in early 2011, was reprinted in Strawson 2015c.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN14"/><span><a href="#FN14a">14.</a></span> His earliest such acknowledgment came in his essay &#x201C;A Guess at the Riddle.&#x201D; See Peirce 1992a: 262&#x2013;263.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN15"/><span><a href="#FN15a">15.</a></span> Even a rock is dynamic, both at an atomic scale and, more generally, over long periods of time. Nothing about dynamical systems theory stipulates that the dynamics must happen quickly, or at a macro scale.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN16"/><span><a href="#FN16a">16.</a></span> Penrose (1989) nicely elaborates on the universality of state-space analysis. See especially pp. 176&#x2013;184.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN17"/><span><a href="#FN17a">17.</a></span> On this view, it is incorrect to say either that brain is causal on mind or that mind is causal on brain&#x2014;both of which views, incidentally, are fraught with philosophical problems. Rather, this theory suggests something approaching a form of parallelism or causal nihilism, in that nothing like the classical notion of causation is advocated.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN18"/><span><a href="#FN18a">18.</a></span> I presume that the dominant force at the atomic level within the sand is electromagnetic. But there would also be an exchange of gravitons (albeit at a very low level, owing to the low mass of atoms).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN19"/><span><a href="#FN19a">19.</a></span> This unification of objective modes seems problematic. How can the unification of multiple <i>objective</i> modes result in a collective <i>subjective</i> experience? The process philosophers have yet to offer a satisfactory account of this.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN20"/><span><a href="#FN20a">20.</a></span> Clarke&#x2019;s book was accompanied by a small anthology, <i>Panpsychism: Past and Selected Readings</i> (2004). This is a moderately helpful collection, though with some questionable inclusions and many notable omissions.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN21"/><span><a href="#FN21a">21.</a></span> Presented in conferences as early as 2004.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN22"/><span><a href="#FN22a">22.</a></span> For an elaboration, see Strawson 2009: 57&#x2013;65.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN23"/><span><a href="#FN23a">23.</a></span> For a few competing definitions, see Chalmers 2002: 265; Alter and Nagasawa 2012: 70&#x2013;71, Rosenberg 2015: 224; Alter and Howell 2015: 277; Kind 2015: 404; Chalmers 2015: 261&#x2013;262.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN24"/><span><a href="#FN24a">24.</a></span> Nietzsche 2003: 26.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN25"/><span><a href="#FN25a">25.</a></span> Nietzsche 1887/1996: 59.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN26"/><span><a href="#FN26a">26.</a></span> Without supplying specifics, Chalmers says that &#x201C;complex experiences are [perhaps] determined more holistically than this&#x201D; (299).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN27"/><span><a href="#FN27a">27.</a></span> Chalmers&#x2019; view of mind is closely affiliated with the panpsychism of Spinoza, Bateson, and Bohm; but he doesn&#x2019;t seem to have been aware of these links.</aside></section></section><!--LinebreakQC:true--></body></html>