<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Continental Panpsychism of the Eighteenth Century</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/mit.css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<header>
<h1>4&#x2003;<span class="chapterTitle"><a id="d2e69"/>Continental Panpsychism of the Eighteenth Century</span></h1></header>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Mechanistic philosophy made substantial progress in eighteenth-century Europe, gradually displacing theism as the dominant worldview. Scientific advances were seen as validating the presumption of a mechanistic cosmos. Judeo-Christian theology was superseded, first in intellectual circles and then later in society at large; its explanatory power faded, and its theistic imperatives grew impotent.</p>
<p>The ascendancy of mechanism was opposed both by theists (on the ground that the cosmos was not without Spirit) and by those who argued for a panpsychist, animated worldview (on the ground that matter was not lifeless and inert). Panpsychism in various forms emerged as a significant challenger to mechanism, at least within the bounds of rationalist philosophy. As it happens, most of the important developments of the century occurred on the Continent, primarily in France and Germany. Notable philosophers, including LaMettrie, Diderot, Herder, Goethe, Maupertuis, and Priestley, argued for a panpsychist view. Even Kant had some interesting observations on the matter.</p>
<section>
<h2><a id="S1"/>4.1&#x2003;<a id="d2e97"/>French Vitalistic Materialism</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">From the late 1600s on, the leading metaphor for nature was that of the machine. Descartes inaugurated this tradition, and Leibniz extended the usage by speaking about living beings as machines. Leibniz couched it in pleasant enough terms, calling living creatures &#x201C;divine machines&#x201D; and emphasizing that natural machines were qualitatively different from man-made versions. Further, these divine machines were at root spiritual; mind and soul resided in the monad atoms that composed them. Living beings were more or less automatons whose actions flowed from the nature of monads and from the universal laws of nature. Shortly thereafter, other thinkers took the next logical step and began to ask whether the soul hypothesis was really necessary at all.</p>
<p>Among the most notorious of these philosophers was Julien LaMettrie (1709&#x2013;1751). Author of the provocative and scandalous <i>L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i>, LaMettrie was the first thinker to unabashedly&#x2014;though anonymously&#x2014;claim that man was purely a natural automaton and did not require an immaterial soul to account for his behavior. He had been trained as a physician, and his study of human anatomy, along with the scientific theories of the day, seemed to support such a view.</p>
<p>LaMettrie&#x2019;s brand of materialism ran against the grain of the time. Pure materialism had been out of favor for nearly 1,500 years, particularly since the rise of the Christian worldview. Virtually all philosophers and natural scientists after the Stoics had claimed that there was some non-material, incorporeal aspect to reality. Hobbes broke with this tradition in the middle of the seventeenth century and met with severe condemnation. Descartes unintentionally set the stage for LaMettrie when he removed the spirit from nearly all aspects of the physical world, save the human. To Descartes, animals were unfeeling natural automata, in a different class of existence than humans. And as science came to explain more about physical reality, the need for an active incorporeal realm lessened. Also, there was increasingly less reason, from a physiological standpoint, to distinguish between humans and other animals. By the early 1700s, LaMettrie could speculate that either the soul did not exist or, if it did, it was essentially identical with the workings of the human body. In openly denying the immaterial soul, he carried scientific philosophy to its logical limit.<a id="FN1a"/><a href="#FN1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>
<p>LaMettrie is also widely pronounced a mechanist; however, that characterization is not correct, and the distinction is quite important. The mechanistic view sees matter as fundamentally lifeless and inert. If one believes that motion and mind somehow arise purely through physical interaction of inert and lifeless atoms, then one is a mechanistic materialist. That approach follows directly from a Cartesian view of matter&#x2014;pure extension, completely dead. To account for the human mind or soul, a mechanistic philosopher must resort to brute emergentism, supernatural dualism, epiphenomenalism, or eliminativism. Those were not viable options for LaMettrie. To him, mind was a very real entity, and clearly it was embedded in a material cosmos. An obvious solution, therefore, was to see matter itself as inherently dynamic, capable of feeling, even intelligent. Motion and mind derive from some inherent powers of life or sentience that dwell in matter itself or in the organizational properties of matter. That view, sometimes called vitalistic materialism, is the one that LaMettrie&#x2014;and later Diderot&#x2014;adopted.<a id="FN2a"/><a href="#FN2"><sup>2</sup></a></p>
<p>Commentators often portray LaMettrie as a mechanist because it is assumed that anyone who denies the spiritual realm must see all things, and in particular all living things, as products of dead matter. It is quite common, even today, to equate materialism with mechanism. But, as has been noted, the two are logically independent. In fact, LaMettrie&#x2019;s first philosophical work attacked the Cartesian notion of animals as unfeeling machines, calling such a position &#x201C;a joke&#x201D; (see below). Though he obviously adopted the term &#x2018;machine&#x2019; in his <i>L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i>, it was in a specifically vitalistic sense.</p>
<p>LaMettrie&#x2019;s writing demonstrates that he had quasi-panpsychist and hylozoist inclinations, which necessarily have no role in a mechanistic materialism. Vitalistic materialism sees some degree of life and mind in all things; it seeks a natural rather than a supernatural explanation. LaMettrie&#x2019;s man-machine was not a machine in the modern sense but rather a natural material object, one capable of self-motion and self-animation. As Vartanian (1960: 19) saw it, LaMettrie&#x2019;s &#x201C;primary task was to vitalize the Cartesian &#x2018;dead mechanism.&#x2019;&#x201D; It was science that set the example: &#x201C;Just as the inexplicable force of attraction [i.e. gravity] was proved empirically to inhere in matter, LaMettrie was encouraged to suppose by analogy that matter might also be capable of consciousness.&#x201D; (67)</p>
<p>LaMettrie&#x2019;s first philosophical work, <i>L&#x2019;Histoire Naturelle de L&#x2019;Ame</i> (Natural History of the Soul), was published in 1745.<a id="FN3a"/><a href="#FN3"><sup>3</sup></a> It begins with a quasi-Stoic explanation of the soul viewed as the &#x201C;active principal&#x201D; of the body rather than as an immaterial substance that somehow interacts with it. Following Descartes, he then accepts that all matter possesses the attribute of spatial extension. Next he claims that matter has an inherent animating force that gives it the power of motion: &#x201C;it is clear enough that matter contains the motive force which animates it and which is the immediate cause of all the laws of movement&#x201D; (1745/1996: 49). Later in the work, LaMettrie carries out the full implications of this thought, arguing for a third general attribute of matter: feeling. But he is not entirely clear as to how we are to understand that faculty. At one point he informs us that it is a general property of matter, something that is clearly apparent in living organisms. Elsewhere we read that this faculty is not always manifest: &#x201C;Here then is yet another faculty [i.e. feeling] which likewise seems to inhere in matter only potentially, like all the others.&#x201D; Furthermore,</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">We must nevertheless admit frankly that we do not know whether matter has in itself the immediate faculty of feeling or only the power of acquiring it through the modification or forms of which it is susceptible. For it is true that this faculty only appears [to us] in organized bodies. (51)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Feeling becomes apparent to us when matter is sufficiently organized, but it exists latently in all matter. This seems to be the logical conclusion.</p>
<p>At the same time, LaMettrie chastises the Cartesians for positing non-human animals as unfeeling machines&#x2014;another indication of his anti-mechanistic position:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">I am aware of all the efforts vainly made by the Cartesians to take [feeling] away from matter. &#x2026; They thought they could extricate themselves with the absurd system &#x201C;that animals are mere machines.&#x201D; Such a ridiculous opinion has never been accepted by philosophers except as a joke. &#x2026; Experience proves that the faculty of feeling exists in animals just as much as it does in men. (50)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Science and physiology prove that there is a &#x201C;perfect resemblance &#x2026; between man and beast,&#x201D; which philosophers ignore at their peril. Thus he places humanity firmly in the natural order and denies any categorical distinction.</p>
<p>LaMettrie doesn&#x2019;t offer a good explanation of how matter can be sentient. In the passage cited above, he admits that it is not known whether feeling is inherent in all matter or is acquired through the forms it takes on. &#x201C;How,&#x201D; he asks candidly, &#x201C;can we conceive that matter can feel and think? I admit that I cannot conceive it.&#x201D; (65) Yet it self-evidently does, in ourselves and other animals.</p>
<p>LaMettrie&#x2019;s strongest case for vitalistic materialism appears in <i>L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i> (1747). He begins by criticizing Leibniz&#x2019;s monadology as &#x201C;unintelligible,&#x201D; arguing that Leibniz went in the wrong direction: &#x201C;he spiritualized matter rather than materialized the soul&#x201D; (1747/1994: 27). Later LaMettrie reiterates his view that men are really no different from animals and in fact should be &#x201C;honored to be ranked among them&#x201D; (47). And he again defends his thesis that the organizational complexity of the human body accounts for the so-called faculties of the soul:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]hese faculties are obviously just this organized brain itself, there is a well-enlightened machine! [Even our conscience is] no more foreign to matter than thought is. &#x2026; Is organization therefore sufficient for everything? Yes, once again. (59)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Utilizing a form of the Continuity argument, he argues that it is the matter of the body itself that exhibits feeling: &#x201C;Since thought obviously develops with the organs, why would the matter of which they are made not be susceptible to [for example] remorse once it has acquired in time the faculty of feeling?&#x201D;</p>
<p>Near the end of <i>L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i> LaMettrie reiterates his claim that mere matter can think, but he acknowledges once again that there is an epistemological problem here. If matter can think, that implies a thinking subject, albeit one that is inherently unknowable:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">On the basis of these [previous] observations and truths, we can attribute the admirable property of thinking to matter even without being able to see the connection between the two, because the subject of that thinking is unknown to us. (75)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This is a modern perspective. The subject&#x2014;that which does the thinking&#x2014;is known only to itself. The inner subjective feelings of any material being are forever hidden from public view. Vartanian notes that &#x201C;the growth of subjective reality from matter in motion remains, in LaMettrie&#x2019;s opinion, a metaphysical riddle lying beyond the competence of psychological [and philosophical] investigation&#x201D; (1960: 23).</p>
<p>In his effort to unify nature, LaMettrie compared humans not only to animals but also to plants. In 1748, a year after <i>L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i>, he published a short work, <i>L&#x2019;Homme Plante</i>, in which he noted the many similarities in physiology between humans and plants (anticipating Fechner) and disputed the ancient notion (e.g., in Aristotle) of plant-souls; he also explicitly denied the concept of a world-soul. He did make one small adjustment to his organizational complexity thesis, arguing that mind is proportional not merely to complexity but more specifically to &#x201C;needs,&#x201D; the demands that the organism makes on the environment: &#x201C;man is neither entirely a plant nor yet an animal like the others. &#x2026; Because we have infinitely more needs, it follows necessarily that man must have infinitely more mind.&#x201D; (1748/1994: 90) The implication is that all beings possess mind proportionate to their need to maintain their existence. The mind of a plant, though &#x201C;infinitely smaller&#x201D; than that of a human, is not nonexistent. Unfortunately, LaMettrie seems not to have pursued this line of thought.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">LaMettrie&#x2019;s works, in particular <i>L&#x2019;Homme Machine</i>, caught the attention of the scientist-philosopher Pierre-Louis Maupertuis (1698&#x2013;1759). In 1751, Maupertuis published a collection of meditations on the philosophy of biology under the title <i>Systeme de la nature</i>. In an earlier work, <i>Venus physique</i> (1745), he had argued for the view that natural organisms were formed in the womb by particles of matter that were pulled together by a force of attraction, supplemented by a kind of memory that reminded them where to go. His reference to &#x201C;attraction&#x201D; derived from Newton&#x2019;s theory of gravitation and the universal attractive force that all matter exhibited.</p>
<p>Newton&#x2019;s use of the word &#x2018;attraction&#x2019; to describe his universal force was controversial. The word has clear animistic overtones, a fact not lost on the scientists and philosophers of the day. It recalls Empedocles&#x2019; notion of Love as the universal attractive force, not to mention Cardano&#x2019;s &#x201C;sympathy&#x201D; of all things and the corresponding panpsychist theories of the world. In the 1680s Fontenelle had warned that granting the power of attraction to matter could lead to further animistic&#x2014;and therefore digressive&#x2014;attributions.</p>
<p>In <i>Systeme de la nature</i>, Maupertuis did precisely that. He determined that attraction alone, or even attraction with a degree of memory, was not sufficient to construct the complex unity of a living creature. Somehow there had to be a form of intelligence in the matter itself: &#x201C;it is necessary to have recourse to some principle of intelligence, to some similar thing like that which we call <i>desire, aversion, memory</i>&#x201D; (in Beeson 1992: 209). Thus Maupertuis took the standard conception of the material world as consisting of extended matter, motion, and attraction and supplemented those qualities with intelligence. Beeson writes:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Extension and movement are [for Maupertuis] not sufficient to explain the reproduction of living organisms, and it is therefore necessary to &#x2026; abandon some simplicity in fundamental assumptions for the sake of closer agreement with observation. Maupertuis proposes the adoption of four concepts: extension, movement, attraction and intelligence, all viewed as essential properties of matter. (209&#x2013;210)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Consequently, the smallest units of matter must be associated with some smallest units of intelligence or perception. Maupertuis referred to such units as &#x201C;percipient particles,&#x201D; a notion that recalls both the soul-atoms of Democritus and the monads of Leibniz. Thus were the physical properties (extension, movement) supplemented with mental properties (intelligence). Here again we see a form of panpsychic dualism&#x2014;or perhaps dual-aspect panpsychism&#x2014;argued for on the basis of first principles. And these intelligent qualities are seen to account for the unified form and properties of a living organism (argument by Design).</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Denis Diderot (1713&#x2013;1784) is best known as a co-editor, with Jean Le Rond d&#x2019;Alembert, of the <i>Encyclopedie</i>&#x2014;a monument to rationalist, secularist, and humanist thought of the French Enlightenment. The central project in all his writing was to dispel supernatural and theistic superstitions and to ground all phenomena in naturalistic explanations. That this could lead to panpsychism is perhaps surprising.</p>
<p>Like LaMettrie and Maupertuis before him, Diderot grappled with a fundamental problem: Given that there is neither a God nor an immaterial soul, one must still account for motion, life, and mind. Each of those three men had a strong intuition toward unity and holism, and all wanted to integrate the human into the natural world. They rejected the purely mechanistic interpretation of a universe of dead matter pushed around by myriad forces, and instead sought solutions in which life and sensitivity were inherent in all things. It is not surprising that, given these conditions and the state of scientific knowledge at the time, they came to similar conclusions.</p>
<p>Rather than formalize things, Diderot prefers to address general themes of a holistic and evolving natural world. Of those themes, the two most relevant here are panpsychism and the unity of the self.</p>
<p>Diderot&#x2019;s panpsychist inclinations first appeared in his <i>Pensees sur l&#x2019;interpretation de la nature</i> (Thoughts on the Interpretation of Nature), published in 1754. In section 50 he offers a sympathetic account of the &#x201C;intelligent matter&#x201D; hypothesis of Maupertuis.<a id="FN4a"/><a href="#FN4"><sup>4</sup></a> Diderot elaborates on this new modification of matter, referring to the various noetic qualities as &#x201C;desire, aversion, memory, and intelligence&#x201D; (1754/1966: 79). He notes that Maupertuis accepts these qualities &#x201C;as being present, in due proportion to their forms and masses, in the smallest particle of matter as well as in the very largest animal.&#x201D; Diderot, clearly impressed by that thesis, devotes a rather large section of <i>Pensees</i> to it. He does not, however, offer it up as his own theory, as he would do 15 years later.</p>
<p>The concept of &#x201C;sensitive matter&#x201D; is one of the central themes in <i>Le Reve de d&#x2019;Alembert</i> (D&#x2019;Alembert&#x2019;s Dream), perhaps Diderot&#x2019;s most important philosophical work. Written as a dialogue between the author, D&#x2019;Alembert, and a few minor characters, it explores a wide variety of themes, touching on psychology, morality, biology, and cosmology. In the opening passage of the first section, D&#x2019;Alembert challenges Diderot with the classic rebuttal to panpsychism: &#x201C;if this faculty of sensation &#x2026; is a general and essential quality of matter, then stone must be sensitive&#x201D; (1769/1937: 49). Diderot&#x2019;s casual reply is &#x201C;Why not?&#x201D; The everyman D&#x2019;Alembert answers &#x201C;It&#x2019;s hard to believe.&#x201D; As the dialogue progresses, it becomes clear that there are two levels of sensitivity in matter: an active form, such as is found in organic beings, and a passive form, such as is found in rocks and inanimate objects. The passive becomes active when taken up in an organic body, as when it is consumed; plants consume minerals, for example, and thus make their sensitivity active.<a id="FN5a"/><a href="#FN5"><sup>5</sup></a> And yet, even as Diderot distinguished degrees of sensitivity, it is clearly the sensitivity itself that is primary.</p>
<p>Throughout the dialogue there are repeated references to &#x201C;the general sensitivity of matter.&#x201D; Later we learn that &#x201C;from the elephant to the flea, from the flea to the sensitive living atom, the origin of all, there is no point in nature but suffers and enjoys&#x201D; (80). Diderot seems to simply accept this panpsychism&#x2014;or rather pansensism&#x2014;as a fundamental aspect of nature, and doesn&#x2019;t work it into a comprehensive metaphysical theory.</p>
<p>This outlook recurs in his other writings. In <i>Elements of Physiology</i>, for example, we find the following passage:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Some day it will be demonstrated that sensitiveness or feeling is a sense common to all beings. There are already phenomena which suggest this. Then matter in general will have five or six essential properties: dead or living force, length, breadth, depth, impenetrability, and sensitiveness. (1774&#x2013;1780/1937: 139)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Diderot thus effectively modified Maupertuis&#x2019; four essential properties of matter, arriving at force, extension, impenetrability, and sensitiveness. His notion of force incorporated the three general categories of kinetic (&#x201C;living&#x201D;) energy, potential (&#x201C;dead&#x201D;) energy, and gravity.</p>
<p>A second theme, unity of the self, addresses the well-known combination problem of panpsychism: If each particle of matter is individually intelligent, how do they combine to form the single sense of being that we all feel? Leibniz solved it by creating the dominant monad. In <i>Le Reve</i>, Diderot points toward an amorphous notion of unity of being that occurs when the intelligent particles are sufficiently interactive. He makes an analogy to a swarm of bees: &#x201C;This cluster is a being, an individual, an animal of sorts.&#x201D; (67) It is a unitary being because of the extremely tight interaction between parts, which pass from being merely &#x201C;contiguous&#x201D; to being truly &#x201C;continuous.&#x201D; Strength of interaction determines the intensity of being; one might also say that intensity of exchange determines intensity of mind. The human body is not categorically different from a swarm of bees. The body is a collection of organs, which &#x201C;are just separate animals held together by the law of continuity in a general sympathy, unity, and identity&#x201D; (68). It is the &#x201C;continual action and reaction&#x201D; between parts that creates the unity. &#x201C;It seems to me,&#x201D; Diderot writes, &#x201C;that contact, in itself, is enough.&#x201D; (76)</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S2"/>4.2&#x2003;<a id="d2e298"/>Kant and Priestley</h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The forefront of panpsychist philosophy moved from France to Germany over the course of the 1700s. But before discussing the role of German Romanticism it is necessary to address two intermediate figures: Immanuel Kant and Joseph Priestley.</p>
<p>Kant&#x2019;s (1724&#x2013;1804) thinking on the matter of hylozoism and panpsychism underwent an interesting progression over the course of his life, moving from early sympathies to a final analytic rejection. A little-known booklet published in 1766, <i>Traume der Geisterseher</i> (Dreams of a Spirit-Seer), focuses on Kant&#x2019;s interest in the spiritual realm and the possibilities of trans-physical phenomena. &#x201C;I confess,&#x201D; he writes, &#x201C;that I am very much inclined to assert the existence of immaterial natures in the world, and to put my soul itself into that class of beings.&#x201D; (1766/1900: 52) He adds in a footnote that whatever &#x201C;contains a principle of <i>life</i>, seems to be of immaterial nature,&#x201D; and that &#x201C;those immaterial beings which contain the cause of animal life &#x2026; are called spirits.&#x201D; He then addresses the idea of hylozoism or panpsychism:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">For every substance, even a simple element of matter, must have an inner activity as the reason for its external efficiency, although I cannot specify in what it consists. (53&#x2013;54)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Another footnote contains this fascinating and revealing comment:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Leibniz says that this inner reason &#x2026; is the <i>power of conception</i> [i.e. intelligence], and later philosophers received this undeveloped thought with laughter. But they would have done better if they had first considered whether a substance of the nature of a simple particle of matter is possible without any inner state. [If so, they would have to] think out another possible inner state than that of conceptions. &#x2026; Everybody recognizes [that] even if a power of obscure conceptions is conceded to &#x2026; matter, it does not follow thence that matter itself possesses power of conception, because many substances of that kind, united into a whole, can yet never form a thinking unit.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Kant thus views the combination problem as insurmountable, stating directly that many individually intelligent particles can never form a single intelligent entity. Beyond this, he doesn&#x2019;t absolutely rule out Leibniz&#x2019;s panpsychist thesis; he recognizes that the issue is not as clear-cut as many would suppose. We see further evidence of his sympathies in the following chapter:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]o which members of nature life is extended, and &#x2026; those [to which] degrees of it &#x2026; are next to utter lifelessness, can, perhaps, never be made out with certainty. Hylozoism imputes life to everything; materialism, carefully considered, kills everything. (57)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">That materialism &#x201C;kills everything&#x201D; is quite a statement. Kant seems to recognize a danger in this ontological view.<a id="FN6a"/><a href="#FN6"><sup>6</sup></a> He then cites Maupertuis&#x2019; panpsychist theory, going on to observe that, as Newton argued, one cannot be sure that all things are not alive: &#x201C;The undoubted characteristic of life [is] free movement &#x2026; , but the conclusion is not certain that, wherever this characteristic is not found, there is no degree of life.&#x201D; Though certainly not endorsing hylozoism, Kant is at least open to the possibility.</p>
<p>Fifteen years later, Kant&#x2019;s focus had shifted from hylozoism to something more akin to true panpsychism. In <i>Critique of Pure Reason</i> (1781) he famously argued that <i>das</i> <i>Ding an sich</i> is inherently unknowable, and thus almost nothing can be said of it. However, in one passage in book II of the Transcendental Dialectic&#x2014;chapter 1, &#x201C;Paralogisms of Pure Reason (B)&#x201D;&#x2014;Kant accepts that the thing-in-itself may share some essential characteristic or quality of mind. In a short section titled &#x201C;Conclusion, In Regard to the Solution of the Psychological Paralogism,&#x201D; he claims that his arguments &#x201C;supply a sufficient answer to this question [of] the communion of the soul [i.e. mind] with the body.&#x201D; He elaborates:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">The difficulty peculiar to the problem consists, as is generally recognized, in the assumed difference [in nature] between the object of the inner sense (the soul) and the [material] objects of the outer senses. But if we consider that the two kinds of objects thus differ from each other, not inwardly but only in so far as one appears outwardly to the other, and that what, as <i>Ding-an-sich-selbst</i>, underlies the appearance of matter, perhaps after all may not be so different in character, this difficulty vanishes &#x2026; .</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Thus he observes that if one assumes that the soul and the objects of the material world are fundamentally alike, i.e., of the same ontological class, then the mind-body problem is resolved. Kant&#x2019;s wording suggests that he would look favorably on such an assumption, though he clearly stops short of endorsing it. Still, the implication is that matter, of which we do not know the true essence, is somehow like our mind, of which we do know, intimately, the essence. We may be mistaken about the true nature of mind, but we certainly know it more directly than we know anything else in the universe. One reasonable conclusion, therefore, would be that all matter has a mind-like quality in and of itself.<a id="FN7a"/><a href="#FN7"><sup>7</sup></a> This leaves us, Kant continues, with only the problem of &#x201C;how <i>in general</i> a communion of [such] substances is possible.&#x201D; But he doesn&#x2019;t address this, saying that it lies not only &#x201C;outside the field of psychology&#x201D; but also &#x201C;outside the field of all human knowledge.&#x201D;</p>
<p>Kant&#x2019;s <i>Critique of Judgment</i> (1790) presents his final analytical stance. He writes that there are two types of philosophical systems that can explain the &#x201C;productive power&#x201D; and &#x201C;purposiveness&#x201D; of nature: realism and idealism. Both of these can exist in two forms: physical and trans-physical. Physical realism, he tells us, &#x201C;bases the purposes in nature &#x2026; on the <i>life of matter</i> (either its own or the life of an inner principle in it, a world-soul) and is called <i>hylozoism</i>&#x201D; (1790/1951: 239). That option, unfortunately, is inconceivable:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[T]he possibility of living matter cannot even be thought; its concept involves a contradiction, because lifelessness, <i>inertia</i>, constitutes the essential character of matter. The possibility of matter endowed with life &#x2026; can only be used in an inadequate way &#x2026; , [and] in no way can its possibility be comprehended <i>a priori</i>. &#x2026; Hylozoism, therefore, does not perform what it promises. (242)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">This seems to be Kant&#x2019;s final word on the matter. Unfortunately, he never pursued the suggestion mentioned in <i>Critique of Pure Reason</i>. For him, apparently, the conceptual weaknesses could not offset the potential explanatory power.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">As it happens, Priestley (1733&#x2013;1804) did not see things as Kant did. Priestley is best known for his discovery of oxygen (in 1774), but he was also an astute natural philosopher. He was concerned with the problem of mind and body, and in 1777 he wrote a rather lengthy treatise on the subject, titled &#x201C;Disquisitions relating to matter and spirit,&#x201D; arguing for the idea that mind and matter are not incompatible Cartesian substances but rather share common qualities, and in fact can be seen as different manifestations of the same underlying entity.</p>
<p>Priestley begins by challenging the traditional view that matter is something defined by extension, inertness, and impenetrability. He accepts the first of these, but replaces the latter two with a pair of forces: &#x201C;I &#x2026; define [matter] to be a substance possessed of the property of <i>extension</i>, and of <i>powers</i> of <i>attraction</i> or <i>repulsion</i>.&#x201D; (1777: 219) He argues that these three properties&#x2014;extension, attraction, repulsion&#x2014;are sufficient to account for all material phenomena.<a id="FN8a"/><a href="#FN8"><sup>8</sup></a></p>
<p>Priestley&#x2019;s ideas were anticipated already in 1758 by the Italian scientist and philosopher Roger (Ruggiero) Boscovich. Boscovich&#x2019;s <i>Theoria philosophiae naturalis</i> presented a thesis in which the forces present in matter were the ultimate ontological reality&#x2014;a view that came to be known as dynamism. Priestley accepted and expanded on that view, adding the quality of extension under the presumption that form or shape was also an essential quality of matter.</p>
<p>For Priestley, the overriding opposition between classical matter and spirit was that matter was solid and spatial whereas spirit was non-spatial and immaterial. That incompatibility was the source of the problem of mind-body interaction. He argued that by dematerializing matter&#x2014;by making it penetrable (i.e., pure force)&#x2014;he could remove that barrier. For him, mind was then completely compatible with matter and could in fact be seen as a particular mode of it:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">[S]ince it has never yet been asserted, that the power of <i>sensation</i> and <i>thought</i> are incompatible with these [powers of attraction and repulsion], I therefore maintain, that we have no reason to suppose that there are in man two substances so distinct from each other as have been represented.</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Priestley sought a materialist monism that shared some qualities with the views of LaMettrie and Diderot; in particular, it saw matter as fundamentally dynamic and animated, and mind as a function of the organizational qualities of matter. In short, Priestley sought to &#x201C;prove the uniform composition of man&#x201D; (220). For him, &#x201C;<i>mind</i> &#x2026; is not a substance distinct from the body, but the result of corporeal organization; &#x2026; whatever matter be, &#x2026; mind is nothing more than a modification of it.&#x201D; Mind reduces to matter, but matter which is, in some sense, fundamentally mind-like. Matter &#x201C;ought to rise in our esteem, as making a nearer approach to the nature of spiritual and immaterial beings&#x201D; (230).</p>
<p>Nowhere did Priestley explicitly state that all matter possesses mind, but this implication can be seen to follow from his premises. He was an implicit panpsychist, and one who, in his time, fundamentally challenged the inert-matter view of the world.</p></section>
<section>
<h2><a id="S3"/>4.3&#x2003;<a id="d2e457"/>German Romanticism and <i>Naturphilosophie</i></h2>
<p class="paraaftertitle">By the late 1700s, philosophical opposition to mechanistic thinking had moved to Germany. Panpsychism continued to play a prominent role, particularly in the emerging views of Johann Herder, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, and Friedrich Schelling.</p>
<p>Herder (1745&#x2013;1803) was a dynamist who rejected the idea that such a view implied materialism. He sought a naturalistic non-reductive ontology in which mind and matter were different degrees of organization of a single underlying force or energy called <i>Kraft</i>. In denying conventional materialism and placing force in a unique ontological category, Herder was one of the first explicitly neutral monists of the modern era, though the designation would not be used until the time of Bertrand Russell.</p>
<p>In the late eighteenth century, science recognized many different forces in nature&#x2014;gravity, magnetism, electricity, light, and motive force, among others. Herder sought to unify these forces as the singular <i>Kraft</i>, of which the various <i>Kr&#x00E4;fte</i> were different manifestations. Furthermore, <i>Kraft</i> was to be seen not merely as physical force but as an animating energy in which the individual sub-forces were in themselves soul-like entities. He wrote of the universal <i>Kraft</i> in <i>On the Cognition and Sensation of the Human Soul</i>:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Quite generally, nothing in nature is separated, everything flows onto and into everything else through imperceptible transitions; and certainly, what life is in the creation is in all its shapes, forms, and channels only a single spirit, a single flame. (1778/2002: 195)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Thus all material things, in addition to the standard forces of physics, are unified and vivified by the universal <i>Kraft</i>. It is at once a life-energy, spirit, and mind&#x2014;recalling the <i>pneuma</i> of the Stoics.</p>
<p>The passage above could be interpreted as expressing a pure, almost idealist monism. However, Herder&#x2019;s thinking was more of a panpsychist variety in which each thing has an interior life and experiential perspective. Nisbet (1970: 10) explains that, in an early 1769 manuscript, Herder discusses &#x201C;how the human body, and by analogy, the planets, are formed by the action of an inner <i>Monas</i> [unity], <i>Kraft</i> [force], or <i>Seele</i>&#x2002;[soul or mind].&#x201D; Herder&#x2019;s 1778 work refers to the Continuity argument and the process of analogical inference: &#x201C;the more we thoughtfully observe the great drama of effective forces in nature, the less we can avoid everywhere feeling <i>similarity with ourselves</i>, enlivening everything with our sensation&#x201D; (1778/2002: 187).</p>
<p>Later he became even more explicitly panpsychist. Nisbet (1970: 11) notes that Herder &#x201C;represents the <i>Kr&#x00E4;fte</i> of plants and stones as analogous to the soul. &#x2026; Each endowed with a different degree of consciousness.&#x201D; In the attempt to classify Herder&#x2019;s metaphysical view, Nisbet runs through a number of panpsychism synonyms, ultimately deciding that &#x201C;pan-animism&#x201D; is most appropriate.</p>
<p>The panpsychist theme continues in Herder&#x2019;s later writings. <i>Ideen zur Philosophie der Geschichte der Menschheit</i> (Ideas for the Philosophy of the History of Humanity; 1784&#x2013;1791) includes, for example, this passage:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">All active forces of Nature are, each in its own way, alive; in their interior there must be Something that corresponds to their effects without&#x2014;as Leibniz himself assumed &#x2026; . (book I, section XIII, in Clark 1955: 311)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Herder clearly saw such a panpsychist dynamism as an alternative to the reigning Cartesian mechanistic materialism, which he strongly opposed. This opposition is consistent throughout his philosophical writings. Nisbet notes that for Herder &#x201C;the psychology of feeling tends to replace mechanical analysis &#x2026; , and <i>Kr&#x00E4;fte</i> increasingly supplant &#x2018;dead&#x2019; matter.&#x201D; From 1769 on, Herder &#x201C;consistently attacks mechanistic theories of nature&#x201D; (133).</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Herder shared many opinions with his contemporary and friend Goethe (1749&#x2013;1832). Like William Blake, Goethe infused many of his literary works with philosophical insight. The exemplary German Romantic, he combined a poetic, mystical feeling for nature with a strong sense of unity and holism.</p>
<p>Elements of panpsychism are found only indirectly in Goethe. First there is his general identification of Nature with God: &#x201C;I have at times to resort to pantheism to satisfy my being.&#x201D;<a id="FN9a"/><a href="#FN9"><sup>9</sup></a> Then there is his frequent attribution of personal and human traits to the phenomena of nature. Sherrington notes that &#x201C;in reading Goethe&#x2019;s science we are never left long without a reminder of his tendency to personify Nature.&#x201D;<a id="FN10a"/><a href="#FN10"><sup>10</sup></a> Goethe expresses this sentiment when he notes that Nature &#x201C;reflects herself &#x2026; everywhere in a manner analogous to our mind.&#x201D;<a id="FN11a"/><a href="#FN11"><sup>11</sup></a> And we find suggestive passages such as this: &#x201C;it is the observer&#x2019;s first duty &#x2026; to aim at the completeness of the phenomena &#x2026; so that they will present themselves to one&#x2019;s observation as an organization manifesting an inner life of its own.&#x201D;<a id="FN12a"/><a href="#FN12"><sup>12</sup></a> The &#x201C;inner life&#x201D; of natural phenomena suggests the presence of mind in nature.</p>
<p>The panpsychist and hylozoist Ernst Haeckel cited Goethe on multiple occasions in support of his own ideas. Haeckel held that mind and matter were inseparably linked, and he attributed the same belief to Goethe:</p><blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">As even Goethe has clearly expressed it, &#x201C;matter can never exist and act without mind, and mind never without matter.&#x201D; (1868/1876: 487)</p></blockquote>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Here we find a beautifully concise statement: no matter without mind, no mind without matter. There is no claim that mind is identical with matter, or that one can be reduced to the other; there is simply the statement that mind and matter are conjoined, that neither exists without the other. This is an essential feature of panpsychism.</p>
<p>Haeckel&#x2019;s citation comes from a letter Goethe wrote in 1828, near the end of his life. The original passage is enlightening. Goethe notes that there are &#x201C;two great driving forces in all nature: the concepts of <i>polarity</i> and <i>intensification</i>&#x201D; (1828/1988: 6). The former is associated with the material dimension of reality, the latter with the spiritual. He defines polarity in a very Empedoclean manner as &#x201C;a state of constant attraction and repulsion,&#x201D; and characterizes intensification as an evolutionary imperative&#x2014;a &#x201C;state of ever-striving ascent.&#x201D; He continues: &#x201C;Since, however, matter can never exist and act without spirit [<i>Seele</i>], nor spirit without matter, matter is also capable of undergoing intensification, and spirit cannot be denied its attraction and repulsion.&#x201D; Again, no matter without mind, no mind without matter.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<p class="paraaftertitle">Herder and Goethe articulated aspects of a holistic philosophy of nature, but its culmination in Germany was achieved in the <i>Naturphilosophie</i> of Friedrich Schelling. In Schelling&#x2019;s view, humans were deeply integrated into nature, physical forces were seen as manifestations of a single underlying force, and mechanism was soundly rejected. He unified these elements and created a comprehensive philosophical system.</p>
<p>For the most part, Schelling&#x2019;s case for panpsychism is implicit. His absolute idealism emphasizes Mind as the underlying unity of all things. Everything finds meaning and resolution in the Mind of the Absolute: &#x201C;Nature is to be invisible mind, mind invisible nature.&#x201D;<a id="FN13a"/><a href="#FN13"><sup>13</sup></a> His early work <i>Ideas for a Philosophy of Nature</i> (1797/1988) includes this remark: &#x201C;[T]here is a hierarchy of life in Nature. Even in mere organized matter there is <i>life</i>, but a life of a more restricted kind.&#x201D; (35) He understands matter as intimately connected to mind: &#x201C;Matter is indeed nothing else but mind viewed in an equilibrium of its activities.&#x201D; (1800/1978: 92) In arguing that mind in nature reveals itself as a form of will, which is a &#x201C;primal being,&#x201D; Schelling was one of the first modern German philosophers to emphasize the ontological importance of the will, following Bruno and Campanella and anticipating Schopenhauer, Hartmann, and Nietzsche.</p>
<p>Commentaries on Schelling&#x2019;s panpsychism are rare. Blamauer (2012) offers what may be the most detailed discussion. Rothschuh describes Schelling&#x2019;s system as essentially that of an evolving spirit: &#x201C;Nature is spirit in the course of becoming.&#x201D;<a id="FN14a"/><a href="#FN14"><sup>14</sup></a> Such a vision appears to describe a cosmos wherein all things possess an element of mind. Werner Marx (1984: 58) notes that for Schelling &#x201C;nature is rather a spirit that, in a dynamic series of stages from inorganic matter up to consciousness, is similar to an ego.&#x201D; This evolving mind is therefore in some sense a subject, a personality, that is manifest in all levels of matter.</p>
<section>
<h2>Notes</h2>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN1"/><span><a href="#FN1a">1.</a></span> LaMettrie was not an outright atheist. Rather, he held more to an agnostic view. On his view, one could certainly continue to believe in God, but it was strictly a matter of faith. God had no role to play in the material world, and certainly no explanatory power over natural phenomena. Nonetheless, atheism was his preferred position, and he asserted that &#x201C;the world will never be happy until it is atheist.&#x201D; (1747: 58)</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN2"/><span><a href="#FN2a">2.</a></span> Vitalistic materialism was anticipated by Cavendish in her theory of organicist materialism of the 1660s&#x2014;recall the discussion in chapter 3. Both of these forms of panpsychic materialism ultimately draw from the Greek notion of a material cosmos pervaded by the <i>pneuma</i>.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN3"/><span><a href="#FN3a">3.</a></span> This work was amended and republished in 1750 as <i>Treatise on the Soul.</i></aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN4"/><span><a href="#FN4a">4.</a></span> Referred to with the pseudonym &#x201C;Dr. Baumann, of Erlangen.&#x201D;</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN5"/><span><a href="#FN5a">5.</a></span> We see here a close connection to LaMettrie&#x2019;s distinction between &#x201C;direct&#x201D; and &#x201C;potential&#x201D; ability to feel.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN6"/><span><a href="#FN6a">6.</a></span> It is clear that he means mechanistic materialism.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN7"/><span><a href="#FN7a">7.</a></span> Kant leaves open the possibility of a neutral-monist position, in which case something other than mind or matter would underlie both.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN8"/><span><a href="#FN8a">8.</a></span> His use of the two opposing forces again recalls Empedocles&#x2019; Love and Strife.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN9"/><span><a href="#FN9a">9.</a></span> Goethe (1824), in Sherrington 1949 (p. 33).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN10"/><span><a href="#FN10a">10.</a></span> Sherrington 1949: 21.</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN11"/><span><a href="#FN11a">11.</a></span> In Vietor 1950 (p. 13).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN12"/><span><a href="#FN12a">12.</a></span> In Naydler 1996 (p. 83).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN13"/><span><a href="#FN13a">13.</a></span> In Bowie 1998 (p. 509).</aside>
<aside class="noteEntry"><a id="FN14"/><span><a href="#FN14a">14.</a></span> In Schnaedelbach 1984 (p. 242).</aside></section></section><!--LinebreakQC:true--></body></html>