<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" prefix="schema: http://schema.org/" lang="en">
  <head>
  	<title>Panpsychism in the West</title>
  	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/mit.css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
  	<article epub:type="titlepage">
  		<section epub:type="frontmatter">
  			<header>
  				<div role="contentinfo">
  					<div class="logo"></div>
  					<div class="imprint">The MIT Press</div>
  					<div class="imprint">Cambridge, Massachusetts</div>
  					<div class="imprint">London, England</div>
  					<div><a href="http://mitpress.mit.edu/books/panpsychism-west" property="schema:sameAs">http://mitpress.mit.edu/books/panpsychism-west</a></div>  				
  				</div>
  				<h1 property="schema:name" epub:type="title">Panpsychism in the West</h1>
  				<div epub:type="subtitle">revised edition</div>  				
  			</header>
  			<div class="authors-and-affiliations" role="contentinfo">
  				<div class="contrib-group">
  					<div class="contributors"><span property="schema:author" typeof="sa:ContributorRole"><span property="schema:givenName">David F.</span> <span property="schema:familyName">Skrbina</span></span></div>
  				</div>
  			</div>
  			<hr/>
  			<div epub:type="dedication">
  				<p>dedicated to all those who seek alternatives to the mechanistic worldview</p>
  			</div>
  			<hr/>
  			<div epub:type="copyright-page">
  				<p>&#x00A9; 2017 Massachusetts Institute of Technology</p>
  				<p>All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form by any electronic or mechanical means (including photocopying, recording, or information storage and retrieval) without permission in writing from the publisher.</p>
  				<p>Set in ITC Stone Sans Std and ITC Stone Serif Std by Toppan Best-set Premedia Limited. Printed and bound in the United States of America.</p>
  				<p>Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</p>
  				<p>Names: Skrbina, David, author.</p>
  				<p>Title: Panpsychism in the West / David Skrbina.</p>
  				<p>Description: Revised edition. | Cambridge, MA : The MIT Press, 2017. |  Includes bibliographical references and index.</p>
  				<p>Identifiers: LCCN 2016059702 | ISBN 9780262534062 (pbk. : alk. paper)</p>
  				<p>Subjects: LCSH: Panpsychism--History.</p>
  				<p>Classification: LCC BD560 .P35 2017 | DDC 141--dc23 LC record available at <a href="https://lccn.loc.gov/2016059702">https://lccn.loc.gov/2016059702</a></p>
  			</div>
  		</section>
  	</article>
  </body>
</html>
