<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/base.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/fancy.min.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/pdf.css"/><meta name="viewport" content="width=640, height=824"/></head><body><div id="page_body"><div id="pf9" class="pf w0 h0" data-page-no="9"><div class="pc pc9 w0 h0"><div class="t m0 x37 hd ydb ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws70">Copyright © 2018 by Nicholas <span class="_ _6"/>A. C. Read and Stephen J. Bistritz, EdD. <span class="_ _6"/>All rights reserved. Except </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ydc ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws71">as permitted under the United States Copyright <span class="_ _6"/>Act of 1976, no part of this publication may be repro-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ydd ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws72">duced or distributed in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yde ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the prior written permission of the publisher<span class="_ _6"/>.</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ydf ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">ISBN: 978-1-26-01<span class="_ _1"/>1640-3</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye0 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">MHID:       1-26-01<span class="_ _1"/>1640-9</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye1 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: ISBN: 978-1-26-01<span class="_ _6"/>1642-7,</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye2 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">MHID: 1-26-01<span class="_ _1"/>1642-5.</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye3 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">eBook conversion by codeMantra</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye4 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">V<span class="_ _0"/>ersion 1.0</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye5 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws73">All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after </div><div class="t m0 x37 he ye6 ffa fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws73"><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _6"/><span class="_ _1"/><span class="_ _6"/></div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye7 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws74">of the trademark owner<span class="_ _6"/>, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such designations </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye8 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">appear in this book, they have been printed with initial caps.</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd ye9 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws75">McGraw-Hill Education eBooks are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yea ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws76">sales promotions or for use in corporate training programs. T<span class="_ _0"/>o contact a representative, please visit </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yeb ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">the Contact Us page at www<span class="_ _6"/>.mhprofessional.com.</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yec ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">TERMS OF USE</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yed ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws70">This is a copyrighted work and McGraw-Hill Education and its licensors reserve all rights in and to </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yee ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws77">the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted under the Copyright <span class="_ _6"/>Act of </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yef ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws78">1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not decompile, disassemble, </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf0 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws79">reverse engineer<span class="_ _6"/>, reproduce, modify<span class="_ _6"/>, create derivative works based upon, transmit, distribute, dis-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf1 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws7a">seminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it without McGraw-Hill Education’<span class="_ _6"/>s </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf2 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws76">prior consent. <span class="_ _6"/>Y<span class="_ _6"/>ou may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any other use </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf3 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws7b">of the work is strictly prohibited. <span class="_ _6"/>Y<span class="_ _6"/>our right to use the work may be terminated if you fail to comply </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf4 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">with these terms.</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf5 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws7c">THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” McGRA<span class="_ _0"/>W<span class="_ _6"/>-HILL EDUCA<span class="_ _5"/>TION <span class="_ _6"/>AND ITS LICENSORS </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf6 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws7d">MAKE NO GUARANTEES OR W<span class="_ _5"/>ARRANTIES <span class="_ _1"/>AS T<span class="_ _1"/>O THE <span class="_ _6"/>ACCURACY<span class="_ _5"/>, <span class="_ _6"/>ADEQUACY OR </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf7 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws7e">COMPLETENESS OF OR RESUL<span class="_ _0"/>TS TO BE OBT<span class="_ _0"/>AINED FROM USING THE <span class="_ _6"/>WORK, INCLUD-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf8 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws7f">ING <span class="_ _1"/>ANY<span class="_ _6"/> <span class="_ _2"/>INFORMA<span class="_ _0"/>TION THA<span class="_ _0"/>T<span class="_ _1"/> CAN <span class="_ _2"/>BE <span class="_ _1"/>ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIA<span class="_ _6"/> <span class="_ _2"/>HYPER-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yf9 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws80">LINK OR OTHER<span class="_ _6"/>WISE, <span class="_ _6"/>AND  EXPRESSL<span class="_ _0"/>Y DISCLAIM <span class="_ _6"/>ANY<span class="_ _6"/> W<span class="_ _0"/>ARRANTY<span class="_ _5"/>, EXPRESS OR </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yfa ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws81">IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT<span class="_ _1"/> LIMITED T<span class="_ _6"/>O IMPLIED W<span class="_ _0"/>ARRANTIES OF MERCHANT<span class="_ _0"/>-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yfb ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws82">ABILITY<span class="_ _1"/> OR FITNESS FOR <span class="_ _6"/>A<span class="_ _6"/> P<span class="_ _6"/>AR<span class="_ _6"/>TICULAR PURPOSE. McGraw-Hill Education and its licen-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yfc ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws83">sors do not warrant or guarantee that the functions contained in the work will meet your requirements </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yfd ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws84">or that its operation will be uninterrupted or error free. Neither McGraw-Hill Education nor its licen-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yfe ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws85">sors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any inaccuracy<span class="_ _6"/>, error or omission, regardless of cause, in </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd yff ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws86">the work or for any damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill Education has no responsibility for </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd y100 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws76">the content of any information accessed through the work. Under no circumstances shall McGraw-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd y101 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws87">Hill Education and/or its licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, consequen-</div><div class="t m0 x37 hd y102 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws71">tial or similar damages that result from the use of or inability to use the work, even if any of them has </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd y103 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws88">been advised of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim </div><div class="t m0 x37 hd y104 ff9 fs8 fc0 sc0 ls0 ws0">or cause whatsoever whether such claim or cause arises in contract, tort or otherwise.</div><a class="" href="http://www.mhprofessional.com"><div class="d m1" style="border-style:none;position:absolute;left:150.049383px;bottom:460.320988px;width:99.000000px;height:9.000000px;background-color:rgba(255,255,255,0.000001);"/></a></div><div class="pi" data-data="{&#34;ctm&#34;:[1.271605,0.000000,0.000000,1.271605,0.000000,0.000000]}"/></div></div></body></html>