<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xml:lang="en-US" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Communication Skills for Pharmacists: Building Relationships, Improving Patient Care, Third Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2" id="ch8"><a id="page_97"/>CHAPTER <big>8</big></h2>
<h2 class="h2a"><em>CONFLICT MANAGEMENT</em></h2>
<p class="noindent">Life is a series of problems or conflicts to be solved or avoided. Some people see problems as opportunities for growth. Others see problems as burdensome and feel incapable of solving them. When confronted with a problem, do you want to moan about it, avoid it, or solve it? The psychologist Carl Jung said that neurosis is always a substitute for legitimate suffering. What he meant is that whenever we try to avoid the legitimate suffering that life causes, we create even more suffering for ourselves. In addition to the fact that the problem or conflict does not go away, we often have feelings of inadequacy or cowardice as a result of the avoidance.</p>
<p class="indent">In <em>The Road Less Traveled</em>, Scott Peck states:<sup><a id="ch8-ref1" href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8_ref1">1</a></sup></p>
<p class="blockquote">What makes life difficult is that the process of confronting and solving problems is a painful one. Problems, depending upon their nature, evoke in us frustration or grief or sadness or loneliness or guilt or regret or anger or fear or anxiety or anguish or despair. These are uncomfortable feelings, often very uncomfortable, often as painful as any kind of physical pain. Indeed, it is <em>because</em> of the pain that events or conflicts engender in us that we call them problems. And life poses an endless series of problems. Life is always difficult and is full of pain as well as joy.</p>
<p class="indentt">Often, the joy we experience in life results from solving problems, because of the opportunity to learn new ways of doing things and new things about ourselves. It is inevitable that some of the interactions we have with others will result in conflicts or problems. We bring so many different beliefs, values, and ideas about how the world ought to be to our relationships that conflict is likely to arise. Unfortunately, too many people believe that this is a bad thing because it feels uncomfortable. In reality, it is an opportunity to learn and grow.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_98"/>Life is not about having a specific kind of relationship with someone. It is about being courageous enough to allow life&#8217;s flow to take you to different places, regardless of the outcome, and to learn as much as you can about who you are (both the good and the painful), regardless of the kind of relationships that unfold. The real tragedy of mental illness and dysfunction is that in living life as often vigilantly afraid creatures, we become defensive, rigid, and closed off to our experiences. We can become fully who we are only when we avail ourselves of all that comes from our experiences; otherwise we drop back into defenses, rules, and rigidity. Real courage is being totally available to our experiences, even when they produce suffering.</p>
<p class="indent">Conflicts have the potential to stimulate creative thinking, provide feedback, and serve as a catalyst. We can view conflict as an opportunity for problem solving. As Peck puts it,<sup><a href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8_ref1">1</a></sup></p>
<p class="blockquote">It is in this whole process of meeting and solving problems that life has its meaning. Problems are the cutting edge that distinguishes between success and failure. Problems call forth our courage and our wisdom; indeed, they create our courage and our wisdom. It is only because of problems that we grow mentally and spiritually. When we desire to encourage the growth of the human spirit, we challenge and encourage the human capacity to solve problems, just as in school we deliberately set problems for our children to solve. It is through the pain of confronting and resolving problems that we learn. As Benjamin Franklin said, &#8220;Those things that hurt, instruct.&#8221; It is for this reason that wise people learn not to dread but actually to welcome problems and actually to welcome the pain of problems.</p>
<p class="blockquote">Most of us are not so wise. Fearing the pain involved, almost all of us, to a greater or lesser degree, attempt to avoid problems. We procrastinate, hoping that they will go away. We ignore them, forget them, pretend they do not exist. We even take drugs to assist us in ignoring them, so that by deadening ourselves to the pain we can forget the problems that cause the pain. We attempt to skirt around problems rather than meet them head on. We attempt to get out of them rather than suffer through them.</p>
<p class="indentt">Peck says that conflict or problems actually create our courage and wisdom. Without conflict or problems, there would be no courage or wisdom.</p>
<p class="indent">The most important predictor of patient compliance with treatment regimens is the patient&#8217;s perception of the health care provider&#8212;you, the pharmacist&#8212;as caring and an advocate. Yet it is inevitable that some <a id="page_99"/>form of conflict or problem will arise as you work with your patients. It is what you do with conflicts or problems that will make a difference in your relationship with the patients. This chapter will provide you with skills for handling conflict.</p>
<h3 class="h3">CAUSES OF CONFLICT</h3>
<p class="noindent">Some of the causes of conflict are described in the following paragraphs.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Lack of awareness.</strong> Awareness involves willingness to know, as well as knowing. Someone can try to make you aware of a fact or problem, but you can choose to ignore or avoid it. If a patient is not aware of how to take a medication properly, a conflict may arise when the medication does not work properly or causes harm.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Incompatible goals.</strong> When conflict arises it is almost always because one party believes achievement of his or her goals is being threatened. The threat can be true or perceived. For example, a patient may have a goal of getting his medicine very quickly, while the pharmacist&#8217;s goal may be accuracy and providing the patient with important information about his illness and drug therapy.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Scarce resources.</strong> Parties in a conflict sometimes find themselves competing for resources (rewards)&#8212;whether tangible (a raise or promotion) or intangible (respect, power, trust). As a pharmacy example, drug information is a scarce resource for patients, but the time to provide that information is a scarce resource for pharmacists.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Dependence.</strong> Conflict occurs between two parties who cannot function independently. Both parties need to be aware of the extent to which they need each other. Pharmacists need technicians to perform technical tasks so that the pharmacists can provide services to their patients that technicians are not qualified to perform. When we depend on people, conflicts may arise because those people don&#8217;t do things exactly the way we think they should be done.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Values.</strong> People have different values. Because of the way these values are learned in childhood, people often see values as absolute &#8220;rights&#8221; and &#8220;wrongs&#8221; rather than beliefs that may or may not work for them. When we are confronted with an opposing value or belief, conflict occurs. Opposing values, beliefs, or ideas call our beliefs into question. This makes us uncomfortable, because the possibility then exists that we have spent a substantial portion of our life believing something that may not have been true. It is unfortunate that most people do not see this as an opportunity to question their own learning or to learn new truths. Many people see conflict as an opportunity to simply defend their beliefs, even if the beliefs really don&#8217;t work. People simply resist change.</p>
<h3 class="h3"><a id="page_100"/>OVERCOMING RESISTANCE TO CHANGE</h3>
<p class="noindent">Some strategies that help in overcoming resistance to change include the following:<sup><a id="ch8-ref2" href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8_ref2">2</a></sup></p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Education.</strong> Education helps to provide information that may be lacking and to clear up inaccurate perceptions about a change. Counseling patients about the proper use of their medications may avoid misconceptions and improper use.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Communication.</strong> Persons adjusting to change need support and encouragement. Active listening and empathy will offer the needed support to persons having difficulty accepting change. Patients having a hard time accepting a chronic illness certainly need this kind of support and encouragement.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Participation.</strong> The change process goes much more smoothly when the persons involved are included in making decisions about the change. It makes a great deal of sense to involve patients in decisions that affect their health and lives.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Problem solving.</strong> The use of problem-solving skills can help the persons involved to accept and approve a desired change. It is important to understand that when we avoid a conflict or a problem three things happen, and all of them impede growth: We still have the problem we originally had. We create a new problem, in that we now have to deny the existence of the problem in order to not feel defeated by it; we are thereby distorting reality. Finally, and probably most important, we invalidate ourselves. We know that we have avoided a problem, it does not feel good, and we have impeded our growth.</p>
<p class="page">&#160;</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-top:0em;">THE LANGUAGE OF PROBLEM SOLVING</h3>
<p class="noindent">People in conflict engage in a specific type of communication or language. The language of conflict focuses on the person: It attacks the person. People in conflict make statements like &#8220;You make me angry!&#8221; &#8220;You&#8217;re too sensitive!&#8221; &#8220;If it weren&#8217;t for you&#8230;&#8221; &#8220;You always do that!&#8221; By the way, most people respond to this last statement with &#8220;I <em>don&#8217;t</em> always do that. Name three times when I&#8217;ve done that!&#8221; Then both people are off and running into an argument and forget what the point was in the first place. The problem does not get solved. Now we have a new problem. Both people are either hurt or angry.</p>
<p class="indent">The language of problem solving focuses on the problem: It attacks the problem. The language of problem solving expresses a desire for a solution that is mutually acceptable and achieves both parties&#8217; goals. Open, honest feelings, facts, and opinions are expressed by both parties. The parties share responsibility to ask questions and get clarification on the issues. Feedback is important in getting clarification and accurately defining the problem.</p>
<h3 class="h3"><a id="page_101"/>RULES FOR FEEDBACK</h3>
<p class="noindent">Some general rules for providing feedback follow:<sup><a id="ch8-ref3" href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8_ref3">3</a></sup></p>
<p class="indentnumbert">1.&#160;&#160;&#160;Be descriptive rather than judgmental. Descriptive statements provide material useful in problem solving. &#8220;Mrs. Jones, I noticed your refill was supposed to occur 7 days ago. Has your regimen changed?&#8221;</p>
<p class="indentnumber">2.&#160;&#160;&#160;Be specific rather than general. Feedback is more effective when specific incidents and behavior are described. &#8220;I like it when you come in on time for your refills.&#8221;</p>
<p class="indentnumber">3.&#160;&#160;&#160;Deal with things that <em>can</em> be changed. The purpose of feedback is to help the receiver; therefore, feedback must focus on things the receiver can control. &#8220;I believe I have a number of ways to help you remember to take your medication. Would you like to hear about some?&#8221;</p>
<p class="indentnumber">4.&#160;&#160;&#160;Give feedback when it is desired&#8212;when someone is willing to listen. Effective feedback requires effort on the part of both the giver and the receiver. If the receiver does not desire the information, the feedback should be given at a later time.</p>
<p class="indentnumber">5.&#160;&#160;&#160;Consider the motives for giving and receiving feedback. For the feedback process to be productive, the receiver should be genuinely concerned with receiving feedback, and the sender should be legitimately interested in helping the receiver gain insight into his or her behavior. &#8220;I see that you are concerned about your blood pressure.&#8221;</p>
<p class="indentnumber">6.&#160;&#160;&#160;Give feedback at the time the behavior takes place, unless the receiver is unable to deal with it at that time. Feedback is most appropriately given immediately after the behavior. This allows the receiver to check the feedback against his or her perception and make a judgment about changing the behavior.</p>
<p class="indentnumber">7.&#160;&#160;&#160;Give feedback when its accuracy can be checked with others. It may be useful to give feedback when others are present, especially when the feedback may not be accepted by the receiver. When others are present, they can confirm the perceptions of the giver and demonstrate their accuracy to the receiver.</p>
<h3 class="h3">STRATEGIES FOR MANAGING CONFLICT</h3>
<p class="noindent">Now let&#8217;s discuss specific conflict management strategies. These strategies can be divided into three categories: win&#8211;lose strategies, lose&#8211;lose strategies, and win&#8211;win strategies. First, we&#8217;ll look at strategies that <em>don&#8217;t</em> work&#8212;that don&#8217;t solve problems. It is important to understand <a id="page_102"/>why win&#8211;lose and lose&#8211;lose strategies don&#8217;t work so that you can focus on the win&#8211;win strategies that do work.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Win&#8211;lose strategies.</strong> These have a winner and a loser. There are three types of win&#8211;lose strategies: competing, accommodating, and dominating. In all of them, the participants believe that in a conflict someone is going to win and someone must therefore lose. And at least one of the participants knows that &#8220;By God, it&#8217;s not going to be me that loses!&#8221;</p>
<p class="indent"><em>Competing</em> is characterized by a high desire to satisfy one&#8217;s own concerns and a low desire to satisfy the concerns of the other party involved in the conflict. The competing strategy focuses on the person and not on the issues of the conflict or problem. Often, one&#8217;s authority is used to win one&#8217;s own way, which leads to one party being satisfied at the expense of the other.</p>
<p class="indent">An example of competing might take place when a patient cannot tolerate the side effects of a new medication and returns it to the pharmacy. The pharmacist can either let the patient return it, or tell the patient that the law states that prescriptions cannot be returned. A pharmacist would be using the competing strategy if he or she argues the law. The pharmacist would win because of not having to &#8220;eat&#8221; the medication cost, and the patient would lose.</p>
<p class="indent"><em>Accommodating</em> is characterized by a low desire to satisfy one&#8217;s own concerns and a high desire to satisfy the concerns of the other party in a conflict. A person who uses this strategy would feel the need to preserve the harmonious relationship at all costs. He or she would have a desire to be accepted by others, to the point of giving in to the other&#8217;s desires when they are in conflict with his or her own desires. A person who uses this strategy sees confrontation as a destructive and painful process. People who are high accommodators generally have low self-esteem. They don&#8217;t think they have the right to their beliefs, ideas, or values. They also think they are responsible for how others feel. They take too much responsibility.</p>
<p class="indent">This is a good place to talk briefly about responsibility. One of the most difficult decisions that we all have to make concerns what we are responsible for. For example, if a patient is angry about waiting, are we responsible for making her happy or putting her needs in front of those of other patients who are not complaining? Are we responsible for solving other people&#8217;s problems for them? Will this help them? The answer to these questions is complex. You must first ask yourself if you are affected by the problem and in what way. Do you have to do something about the problem, and will your action resolve the problem or create a new problem that is greater than the one you were trying to resolve?</p>
<p class="indent">An example of accommodating might occur when a patient comes into the pharmacy and walks to the front of the line, insisting that his <a id="page_103"/>or her prescription be filled <em>now</em>. The pharmacist goes ahead and fills the prescription, giving in to the patient&#8217;s anger without regard to the other patients. Now, several patients become angry because their prescriptions are delayed. In essence, the pharmacist has replaced one problem with another.</p>
<p class="indent"><em>Dominating</em> is characterized by a low level of cooperativeness and a high level of aggression. Personal attacks are on others, not on the issues at hand. The person who uses this strategy is driven by a need to be in control or to control the behavior of others. He or she uses power or threats to win.</p>
<p class="indent">An example of a dominating strategy occurs when a technician calls in sick. The technician on duty has already worked 7 hours and is to get off work in 1 hour. The manager tells this technician that he will have to work until closing (4 hours beyond his scheduled time). The technician becomes upset because he has a date planned. Rather than appealing to the technician with some sense of understanding, the manager calls the technician unprofessional and tells him that if he doesn&#8217;t work until closing he shouldn&#8217;t count on any favors from the manager in the future.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Lose&#8211;lose strategies.</strong> These strategies result in both parties losing. There are two types of lose&#8211;lose strategies: avoidance and compromise.</p>
<p class="indent"><em>Avoidance</em> is characterized by a low level of cooperativeness and a low level of assertiveness. Conflict is seen as a useless and punishing experience. Avoidance means removing oneself from the conflict both mentally (emotionally) and physically&#8212;sidestepping the disagreement and tension.</p>
<p class="indent">An example of avoidance would be the following: Mrs. Smith, a wealthy, retired woman is generally in a bad mood when she comes into the pharmacy. She has been known to use foul language when she is not waited on immediately. Because the pharmacist dislikes confronting her (or even greeting her), he always sends a technician out to talk to Mrs. Smith. During this time, the pharmacist acts busy or preoccupied, never making eye contact with Mrs. Smith.</p>
<p class="indent"><em>Compromise</em> is a widely used strategy that is characterized by a moderate desire to satisfy one&#8217;s own concerns and a moderate desire to satisfy the concerns of the other party. Unfortunately, neither party is completely satisfied with the outcome. A solution is chosen (often hastily) that is not the best, most effective one. There is no direct confrontation about the issues and goals. Most people do not think of a compromise as a lose&#8211;lose proposition.</p>
<p class="indent">If compromise is a lose&#8211;lose strategy, why do people use it so often? And why do people feel such urgency about coming up with a solution right away? Basically, people avoid pain and the hard work of coming <a id="page_104"/>up with a solution that is acceptable to all parties. To do this, questions have to be asked and feelings have to be explored in order to find out what is important to others. This takes hard work, objectivity, and risking. The risking occurs because, when you really ask someone about what he or she wants and why, it may change you. And even though that change might be for the better, we often don&#8217;t like to change.</p>
<p class="indent">An example of a compromise would be the following: A married couple can afford to either go out to dinner or go to a movie. Both partners enjoy both activities. She wants to go out to dinner and have seafood. He likes going out to dinner but hates seafood. He suggests going to the new Woody Allen movie in town. She likes movies but hates Woody Allen. They compromise. He agrees to go to a seafood restaurant with her this week if she will go to the Woody Allen movie with him next week.</p>
<p class="indent">Rather than finding a restaurant that both like and a movie they both like, they &#8220;put their love to the compromise test.&#8221; He&#8217;ll sit in the restaurant and hate it this week, and she&#8217;ll go to the Woody Allen movie and hate it next week. Remember, though: If both like seafood and both like Woody Allen, but they cannot afford to do both each week, then the above compromise is win&#8211;win.</p>
<p class="indent"><strong>Win&#8211;win strategy.</strong> Now that we&#8217;ve talked about the strategies that do not work, we&#8217;ll talk about the strategy where both parties win. There is really only one type of win&#8211;win strategy: problem-solving.</p>
<h3 class="h3">STEPS IN PROBLEM SOLVING</h3>
<p class="noindent">Problem-solving is characterized by both parties agreeing to an outcome that is acceptable. There are five steps in the problem-solving process.</p>
<p class="indentnumbert">1.&#160;&#160;&#160;<strong>Identify the problem.</strong> It is important not only to identify the exact problem and its nature but also to identify who &#8220;owns&#8221; the problem&#8212;who has responsibility for the problem. We are not responsible for solving other people&#8217;s problems. Pharmacists have an obligation to advise patients on how to take their medications and other health-related matters. But what do you do when your best efforts are not listened to? What do you do when a patient consistently does not take your advice?</p>
<p class="indentnumber">2.&#160;&#160;&#160;<strong>Identify all possible solutions.</strong> This may require brainstorming with others. The more solutions that are generated, the better is the chance of determining the best solution to the problem. In brainstorming, multiple solutions to a problem may exist and are sought, parties understand that important decisions or solutions may take time, and all possible ideas must be expressed. Brainstorming allows a group of two or more individuals to come up with many possible solutions to a problem. The sidebar above presents some basic rules for brainstorming.</p>
<div class="box">
<div class="spc">
<p class="bhead"><a id="page_105"/><strong>Rules for Brainstorming</strong></p>
</div>
<hr/>
<div class="spc1">
<p class="noindentnumber">1.&#160;&#160;&#160;The individuals involved define the problem.</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">2.&#160;&#160;&#160;A pleasant, relaxed atmosphere is maintained.</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">3.&#160;&#160;&#160;All individuals involved throw out as many ideas as they can think of.</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">4.&#160;&#160;&#160;Ideas may not be criticized or ignored.</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">5.&#160;&#160;&#160;All ideas are recorded to avoid any idea being overlooked or forgotten.</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">6.&#160;&#160;&#160;The participants strive for quantity at this point, not quality.</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">7.&#160;&#160;&#160;The participants are free to seek combinations or improvements of ideas.</p>
</div>
</div>
<p class="indentnumber">3.&#160;&#160;&#160;<strong>Decide which solution is the best.</strong> After all the solutions have been identified, choose the solution that is best for the problem at hand. Does this solution appeal to all parties involved?</p>
<p class="indentnumber">4.&#160;&#160;&#160;<strong>Determine how to implement the solution.</strong> After the solution has been chosen, decide on a plan of action for carrying out the solution. This will vary depending on the type of problem.</p>
<p class="indentnumber">5.&#160;&#160;&#160;<strong>Assess the outcome of your solution.</strong> Was it a win&#8211;win solution? Were both parties satisfied with the outcome? Was there something about this problem that could have been prevented in the first place?</p>
<p class="indentt">These steps are sequential, but some of the steps may overlap or be omitted, depending on your situation.</p>
<h3 class="h3">SUMMARY</h3>
<p class="noindent">Problems and conflict are inevitable. Courage and introspection are needed to solve problems and resolve conflict. Because problems are painful, we often try to avoid them or look for quick fixes, but this rarely works. This chapter has advocated a problem-solving approach and language that focuses on attacking problems rather than people. Practicing this approach should be fruitful in both your professional and your personal life.</p>
<div class="box">
<div class="spc">
<p class="bhead"><a id="page_106"/><strong>Questions for Reflection</strong></p>
</div>
<hr/>
<div class="spc1">
<p class="noindentnumber">1.&#160;&#160;&#160;Discuss the following statements: &#8220;Without problems or conflict there is no need for courage. In fact, problems or conflicts create our courage.&#8221;</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">2.&#160;&#160;&#160;Why is compromise lose&#8211;lose?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">3.&#160;&#160;&#160;Why should you carefully consider your motives before giving someone feedback?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">4.&#160;&#160;&#160;Discuss the rules of brainstorming. Which of the rules do you believe are most frequently violated?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">5.&#160;&#160;&#160;What is the relationship between brainstorming and problem solving?</p>
<p class="noindentnumber">6.&#160;&#160;&#160;What are the most prevalent conflict areas between patient and pharmacist? What can be done to reduce or resolve these problems?</p>
</div>
</div>
<h3 class="h3">REFERENCES</h3>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch8_ref1" href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8-ref1">1</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Peck MS. <em>The Road Less Traveled</em>. New York: Simon and Schuster; 1978:16.</p>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch8_ref2" href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8-ref2">2</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Daft RL, Steers RM. <em>Organizations: A Micro/Macro Approach</em>. Glenview, Ill: Scott, Foresman and Co; 1986:575&#8211;80.</p>
<p class="refentry-1">&#160;&#160;<a id="ch8_ref3" href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8-ref3">3</a>.&#160;&#160;&#160;Filley AC. <em>Interpersonal Conflict Resolution</em>. Glenview, Ill: Scott, Foresman and Co; 1975:41&#8211;3.</p>
</body>
</html>