<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xml:lang="en-US" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Communication Skills for Pharmacists: Building Relationships, Improving Patient Care, Third Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="copyright1"><a id="page_iv"/>Editor: Nancy Tarleton Landis</p>
<p class="copyright">Acquiring Editor: Julian I. Graubart</p>
<p class="copyright">Proofreader: Kathleen K. Wolter</p>
<p class="copyright">Indexer: Suzanne Peake</p>
<p class="copyright">Layout: Michele Danoff, Graphics By Design</p>
<p class="copyright">Book Design: Roy A. Barnhill</p>
<p class="copyright">Cover Design: Mariam Safi, APhA Creative Services</p>
<p class="copyrightt">&#169; 2009 by Jobson Medical Information LLC</p>
<p class="copyrightt">Published by the American Pharmacists Association</p>
<p class="copyright">1100 15th Street, NW, Suite 400</p>
<p class="copyright">Washington, DC 20005-1707</p>
<p class="copyright"><a href="http://www.pharmacist.com">www.pharmacist.com</a></p>
<p class="copyrightt">All rights reserved</p>
<p class="copyrightt">APhA was founded in 1852 as the American Pharmaceutical Association.</p>
<p class="copyrightt"><em>No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without written permission from the publisher</em>.</p>
<p class="copyrightt">To comment on this book via e-mail, send your message to the publisher at <a href="mailto:aphabooks@aphanet.org">aphabooks@aphanet.org</a>.</p>
<p class="copyrightt"><strong>Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</strong></p>
<p class="copyright">Berger, Bruce A.</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;&#160;Communication skills for pharmacists : building relationships, improving patient care / Bruce A. Berger. -- 3rd ed.</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;p. ; cm.</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;&#160;&#8220;The chapters in this book are articles that were originally published in U.S. Pharmacist&#8221;--Acknowledgments.</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;&#160;Includes bibliographical references and index.</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;&#160;ISBN 978-1-58212-132-1 (alk. paper)</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;1. Communication in pharmacy. 2. Pharmacist and patient. I. American Pharmacists Association. II. U. S. pharmacist. III. Title.</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;&#160;[DNLM: 1. Pharmacists. 2. Professional-Patient Relations. 3. Communication. QV 21 B496c 2009]</p>
<p class="copyrightt">&#160;&#160;RS56.B474 2009</p>
<p class="copyright">&#160;&#160;615&#8217;.1--dc22</p>
<p class="copyrightc">2008045919</p>
<div class="boxa">
<p class="copyright"><strong>How to Order This Book</strong></p>
<p class="copyright">Online: <a href="http://www.pharmacist.com">www.pharmacist.com</a></p>
<p class="copyright">By phone: 800-878-0729 (770-280-0085 from outside the United States)</p>
<p class="copyright">VISA&#174;, MasterCard&#174;, and American Express&#174; cards accepted</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>