<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xml:lang="en-US" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Communication Skills for Pharmacists: Building Relationships, Improving Patient Care, Third Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="page-template.xpgt"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2b" id="pre"><a id="page_vi"/><a id="page_vii"/><em>Preface</em></h2>
<p class="noindent">Pharmaceutical care is the mission of pharmacy practice. It requires the development of a covenantal relationship between pharmacist and patient, in which information is exchanged, held in confidence, and used to optimize patient care through appropriate drug therapy. Developing such a relationship requires skills, hard work, and continuity of care. This book is intended to help pharmacists provide better care to patients. Its focus is the communication skills necessary to build the kind of relationships that result in improved therapeutic outcomes.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter1.xhtml#ch1"><strong>Chapter 1</strong></a> sets the stage for the remainder of the book. It focuses on pharmacists&#8217; moral and ethical responsibilities in providing pharmaceutical care. In addition, this chapter discusses what it means to care, what it means to be a professional, and the roles that pharmacists, schools of pharmacy, state boards of pharmacy, and professional organizations can play in advancing the profession.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter2.xhtml#ch2"><strong>Chapter 2</strong></a> discusses the need for relationships and why developing effective relationships with patients (and health care providers) is essential in the provision of pharmaceutical care. Satisfying relationships pave the way for positive treatment outcomes.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter3.xhtml#ch3"><strong>Chapter 3</strong></a> considers the choice we have when we encounter our patients. Do we see them as people or as objects? What are the implications for patient care when we see people as less than human, and why does this happen?</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter4.xhtml#ch4"><strong>Chapter 4</strong></a> introduces the skills of listening and empathic understanding. These skills enable us to respond to others in a caring and respectful manner. Communicating understanding is a powerful way to help patients carry out a treatment plan.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter5.xhtml#ch5"><strong>Chapter 5</strong></a> discusses principles of patient counseling and how counseling differs from simply providing information. The chapter includes a checklist, with a detailed explanation, that pharmacists can use in counseling patients about their medications.</p>
<p class="indent">Even when pharmacists use their best interpersonal skills, patients or health care providers may still become angry and direct that anger at the pharmacist. <a href="chapter6.xhtml#ch6"><strong>Chapter 6</strong></a> discusses how to deal with anger effectively. To maintain therapeutic relationships, we need to understand this strong and powerful emotion and respond to it appropriately.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter7.xhtml#ch7"><strong>Chapter 7</strong></a> presents the basic tenets of assertiveness and skills involved in becoming assertive. It distinguishes assertive, nonassertive, and aggressive behaviors and explores rights and responsibilities in assertive communication.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_viii"/>Conflict in relationships is inevitable. As long as people hold differing values, conflicts will occur. The way we manage conflicts can promote understanding&#8212;or undermine the relationship. <a href="chapter8.xhtml#ch8"><strong>Chapter 8</strong></a> discusses effective and ineffective ways of managing conflict.</p>
<p class="indent">Pharmaceutical care requires a dramatic change in pharmacists&#8217; practice. Taking medications and adjusting one&#8217;s lifestyle to manage a chronic illness also requires change. <a href="chapter9.xhtml#ch9"><strong>Chapter 9</strong></a> explores change and how to help patients manage the changes necessary to effectively control an illness. Applications of the transtheoretical model of change and motivational interviewing are discussed.</p>
<p class="indent">Pharmaceutical care cannot be provided effectively without productive relationships with physicians. <a href="chapter10.xhtml#ch10"><strong>Chapter 10</strong></a> discusses how to call a physician and how to have a face-to-face conversation when drug therapy problems arise.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter11.xhtml#ch11"><strong>Chapter 11</strong></a> explores supportive communication. Different emotions, such as anger, sadness, and anxiety, have different origins. A response that soothes an angry patient may not be appropriate for a patient who is depressed after learning about a chronic condition. Different types of responses are needed if communication is to be caring and effective.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter12.xhtml#ch12"><strong>Chapter 12</strong></a> summarizes types of responses and when each is appropriate and effective. For example, pharmacists need to discern when it is appropriate to give advice and when it is not.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter13.xhtml#ch13"><strong>Chapter 13</strong></a> examines persuasive communication. It describes conditions in which persuasive communication can be effective and times when it is not only ineffective but can actually cause more resistance.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter14.xhtml#ch14"><strong>Chapter 14</strong></a> provides examples of immediate and nonimmediate verbal and nonverbal communication. Both what we say and how we say it can affect whether we are perceived as caring, aloof, involved, or indifferent.</p>
<p class="indent">The increasing diversity of the U.S. population presents pharmacists with new challenges in treating and communicating with people from many cultural backgrounds. <a href="chapter15.xhtml#ch15"><strong>Chapter 15</strong></a> examines the need for cultural competence in providing care to diverse patient populations.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="chapter16.xhtml#ch16"><strong>Chapter 16</strong></a> looks at how to communicate effectively with patients who have illnesses they may find difficult to discuss because of gender (erectile dysfunction, menopause), ethnicity (cultural beliefs), social stigma (HIV, herpes), or emotional (depression) or physical (psoriasis) consequences that may cause shame or embarrassment. These sensitive issues require caring, privacy, and a nonjudgmental approach in interacting with the patient.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_ix"/><a href="chapter17.xhtml#ch17"><strong>Chapter 17</strong></a> focuses on the impact of a patient&#8217;s literacy limitations on how health information is understood and acted upon, and the resultant outcomes. The chapter defines and contrasts literacy and health literacy, explores the prevalence of the problem, and discusses and demonstrates communication strategies for identifying literacy problems and directly addressing them in an effective, sensitive, and caring manner.</p>
</body>
</html>